Corporate Governance
Constant Improvement in  
the Board of Directors
•   Establishment of the Governance, Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee through reorganization
•   Aforementioned committee chaired by an Outside Director 
and has a majority of Outside Directors as members
FYE 2024
•  Establishment of the Women’s Advancement Committee
•  Appointment of two outside officers with experience in corporate 
management
FYE 2022–
FYE 2023
•  Maintain the ratio of Outside Directors to more than one-third at any time*
•  Formulate ITOCHU’s Policy on the Governance of Its Listed Subsidiaries
FYE 2020–
FYE 2021
•  Transition to a Board of Directors with a monitoring-focused structure
•  Discontinue consultant and advisor system
FYE 2018–
FYE 2019
•  Establishment of the Governance and Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee
•  Increase in the number of Outside Directors (from two to three)
FYE 2016–
FYE 2017
*  The ratio of Outside Directors to more than one-third had been practiced after the transition to a monitoring-focused Board of Directors in FYE 2018 and 
has been adopted and adhered to as a policy.
■ Activities of the Advisory Committees to the Board of Directors
In FYE 2023, a total of four meetings were held (two of which were held by paper circulation), 
with all members in attendance. The main topics included the Board of Directors’ effective-
ness evaluation, the conclusion of a company indemnification agreement, reorganization of 
the Governance and Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee, and the con-
tinuation of share price-linked bonuses with the two fiscal years from FYE 2024 to FYE 2025 
as a calculation period. Each member engaged in active deliberations on every topic. In delib-
erations on the reorganization of the Governance and Remuneration Committee and the 
Nomination Committee, opinions were expressed to the effect that integration of the commit-
tees would promote even livelier discussions and that a committee with a composition reflect-
ing the different roles of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members would enable 
them to better fulfill their  respective roles.
In FYE 2023, a total of four meetings were held (one of which was held by paper circulation). 
One of the in-person meetings was attended only by the Chairman & CEO and the committee 
members who are outside  officers. The other two meetings were attended by all committee 
members. The committee members deliberated such matters as FYE 2024 personnel matters 
related to Executive Officers, succession plans, and other items, and held lively discussions on 
important personnel matters, including the continued appointment of the CAO and CFO and 
the appointment of Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board Members, and Executive Officers. 
In addition, future-oriented discussions on succession planning will continue to be held.
In FYE 2023, a total of two meetings were held, with all members in attendance. The main 
topics included the current status of new female appointees to and female candidates for senior 
management positions, initiatives for the promotion of female employees, and human capital 
disclosure in the Financial Information Report. Each member engaged in active deliberations on 
every topic. Regarding new female appointees to senior management positions, the committee 
received reports stating that, partly thanks to initiatives to date, steady progress is being made 
in appointing women to important positions, including the appointment of the first female presi-
dent of an overseas office and the appointment of a first female president of a domestic Group 
company. Also, opinions were provided to the effect that in achieving further favorable results, 
it was necessary to share examples of female career-track employees who have successfully 
assumed important positions, and to understand and support from the front lines in which 
female employees are actually promoted.
Governance and 
Remuneration 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Women’s 
Advancement 
Committee
90
■ Succession Plan
The Company positions succession plans as a material management issue in an effort to enhance management sustain-
ability and medium- to long-term corporate value. As the CEO leading ITOCHU, a general trading company, it is assumed 
that the most important skill is to have “business capabilities as a merchant” and business sense, and to be able to prac-
tice “Sampo-yoshi.” The CEO selection process and a policy on training CEO candidates are as follows.
CEO Selection Process
Proposals by the Chairman & CEO
•  The Chairman & CEO recommends candidates to the Governance, Nomination and Remuneration Committee based on input from 
executives because it is not only essential to have knowledge related to the businesses of the entire Company to enhance 
medium- to long-term corporate value but also to have a deep understanding of the candidates’ careers, experience, character, 
and other factors.
Deliberations at the Governance, Nomination and Remuneration Committee
•  The Governance, Nomination and Remuneration Committee is chaired by an Outside Director and has a majority of Outside 
Directors. Its deliberations reflect the perspectives of outside officers who share viewpoints with general shareholders and society.
Deliberation at Meetings of the Board of Directors
•  The Governance, Nomination and Remuneration Committee reports the results of deliberations to the Board of Directors, and  
the CEO is decided  following discussions at Meetings of the Board of Directors.
Policy on Training CEO Candidates
Officers who have “business capabilities as a merchant” are positioned within the organization to enable them to thrive 
and gain experience. To train multiple candidates in leadership and enable them to learn how to engage with customers, 
we allow them to gain daily experience in highly challenging frontline operations, regardless of whether they are stationed 
at headquarters or a Group company, in Japan or overseas.
Kunio Ishizuka
Outside Director
Mr. Ishizuka has extensive knowledge of 
corporate management and the retail indus-
try, which was earned through his experi-
ence as President and Chairman of Isetan 
Mitsukoshi Holdings Ltd. and as a Vice 
Chair of Nippon Keidanren (Japan Business 
Federation). He assumed his position as a 
member of the Board of Directors at 
ITOCHU in June 2021. As of FYE 2024, he 
serves as chair of the Governance, 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
Selecting Management with a Focus on Practicality
As chair of the Governance, Nomination and Remuneration Committee, I emphasize 
practicality above all else in selecting senior management members. There are aspects 
of formally setting the CEO’s term and retirement age that are easy for stakeholders to 
comprehend, but amid this uncertain business environment, I do not believe that pro-
ceeding with generational replacement in line with just one set of rules will necessarily 
lead to the sustainable growth and enhancement of corporate value. Corporate man-
agement is not conducted by the CEO alone. The presence of a robust management 
team supporting the CEO is crucial. The Governance, Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee discusses many important human resource matters, including management 
supporting the CEO. When selecting management, some aspects of character can be 
glimpsed from their experience to date and their daily interactions. It is also important, 
however, to uncover their unwavering resilience and true qualities in line with the trends 
of the time. General trading companies have expanded business and changed their 
business structures in tandem with changes in the external environment. In addition to 
nimble innovation suited to the roles of companies demanded by each era, we need to 
assess whether they have a consistent core as a merchant and can demonstrate stead-
fast leadership. ITOCHU has many personnel who have a talent for doing business. As 
chair of the Governance, Nomination and Remuneration Committee, I will continue lead-
ing discussions on important personnel, such as the CEO and other senior management 
members, while assessing current trends, as well as utilizing my perspective as outside 
officer and as a former top management in the retail industry.
91
