Our Business Model, as Seen through Business Development
Special Feature 2 Polishing Our Existing Business and New Steppingstones
■ Frequently Asked Questions about Our Business Model
This section explains the key features of our business model and provides examples of it with the aim of addressing 
questions that are often asked by investors, shareholders, and other stakeholders.
Q1. What are differences between investment business of ITOCHU and typical private equity fund?
There are certain similar aspects, such as the desire to contribute proactively to investees’ management and maximize the 
corporate value of investees. However, we are aware that there are differences in terms of dispatching our personnel, 
focusing on generating synergies with existing businesses, and enjoying returns centered on trading profits and dividends.
Investee Liquidity
Typical Private Equity Fund
In principle, unlisted
Investee Ownership Ratio
In principle, majority stake up to 100%
ITOCHU
Either listed or unlisted
Decided individually, based on  
business conditions and market environment
Investee Ownership Period
Buy and hold with an exit strategy
Buy and hold
Personnel Secondment  
to Investee
Synergies
Returns
Outside managers dispatched
ITOCHU personnel dispatched to  
management or frontline operations
In principle, none
Create synergies with existing businesses
Capital gains and dividends
In principle, trading profits and dividends
Q2. What are differences between trading business of ITOCHU and typical commodity trading companies?
Traditionally, general trading companies’ core businesses are engaged in trade. By buying, selling, and brokering prod-
ucts, we build relationships with customers and partners, and form sales channel of all kinds of products and information 
networks that have global reach. Although there exist similarities in the trading of such resources as crude oil and iron 
ore, and grains that is handled by ITOCHU and typical commodity trading companies in terms of buying, selling, and bro-
kering products through global networks, we are aware that there are differences in terms of the products handled, 
nature of trading and volatility, etc.
Typical Commodity Trading Companies
ITOCHU
Products Handled
In principle, upstream market-sensitive commodities
All types of products, from upstream to downstream
Nature of Trading
Volatility of Returns
Trading for speculative purposes and / or  
based on actual demand
In principle, trading based on actual demand
High
Low
Personnel Attributes
In principle, expertise in a single product
In addition to expertise in a single product,  
knowledge of peripheral businesses
Synergies
In principle, none
Creation of synergies through broad value chains
Q3.  Could you describe a specific case of asset replacement that took advantage of changes in the 
business environment?
One example of asset replacement in FYE 2023 was the sale of CONEXIO 
Corporation (CONEXIO). CONEXIO was a Group company that was originally 
spun off from ITOCHU’s mobile phone agency business, and it had been con-
tributed to the Group’s profits over many years. However, as the business envi-
ronment grew harsher in the mobile phone sales industry, such as declining 
sales of new devices, ITOCHU determined that accepting a tender offer for 
CONEXIO disclosed in FYE 2023 would further enhance the corporate value of 
both CONEXIO and the Company, and so we decided to implement strategic 
asset replacement. (  Page 95 Discussions at Meetings of the Board of Directors Related to an Individual Project)
  On the other hand, to take advantage of the growth in the used mobile phone device market against a backdrop of 
increasingly expensive new mobile devices and SDGs trends, we founded Belong Inc. in February 2019 as a foundation 
for building a new profit base. Leveraging the expertise that ITOCHU accumulated through the mobile phone device 
trade, along with the know-how and supplier network cultivated through mobile phone agency business, Belong Inc. 
buys back and sells used mobile phones and tablets with its own operation center for inspection, repair, storage, and 
delivery. In addition, Belong Inc. launched a business to rent out and buy back devices from corporate customers to 
address their needs for used mobile phones and tablets mainly due to rising prices of new devices. Furthermore, the 
company is working to diversify its businesses, such as starting an initiative to promote sustainability in food delivery 
businesses with Uber Eats Japan, Inc., with whom we are collaborating on a project to collect and reuse tablets.
Operation center at Belong Inc.
64
By focusing on fields where we can demonstrate strengths, and creating multifaceted, linked businesses, we strive to 
achieve sustainable value creation. In this special feature, we will illustrate examples in which we create new added 
values by thoroughly polishing existing business and steadily setting new steppingstones.
■  Polishing Value Chain, Starting with FamilyMart and Steppingstones for 
Further Growth
Polishing Our Existing Business
New Steppingstones
Physical Store
Advertising and  
Media Businesses
Value Chains Starting  
with FamilyMart
Data Utilization
 Page 66
■  Polishing and Further Expanding the Earnings Base of the North American 
Construction Materials Business through a Hands-on Management Style
Polishing Our Existing Business
New Steppingstones
Fences Business
Residential-related Business
■  Evolution of the Value Chain through Collaboration between CTC and Our 
Group of Digital Businesses
 Page 68
Polishing Our Existing Business
New Steppingstones
CTC
Group of Digital Businesses
 Page 70
65
