Special Feature 1 Human Resource Strategy to Enhance Corporate Value
■ Develop a Rewarding Work Environment
Having clearly identified human resource strategy as a key component of its management strategy, ITOCHU’s manage-
ment team is committed to creating a company that is challenging but rewarding to work for, where meeting the 
demands of work is not only challenging but also rewarding in many different ways.
ITOCHU disclosed detailed content of its suite of unique work-style reforms, which began from 2010, to pique the 
interest of society and meet its expectations. We try to connect this action to the benefit of society as described in the 
Company’s corporate mission of “Sampo-yoshi.”
  As well as improving employee motivation and labor productivity, our successful creation of a frontline-focused  
rewarding workplace environment in which every employees can fully realize their capabilities, while strengthening our 
front-line capabilities, is creating a virtuous cycle that results in a favorable external reputation enabling us to recruit  
outstanding human resources.
Enhance Corporate Value through Improved Labor Productivity
Number of employees, non-consolidated basis (left)
Consolidated net profit (loss) (right)
(People) 
8,000
6,000
4,000
2,000
0
(Billions of yen)
800
600
400
200
0
(FYE)
96
01
06
11
16
23
Improving Employees’ Motivation and Willingness to Contribute
Recruiting Outstanding  
Evolving Work Styles
Human Resources
Enhancing corporate brand 
and the value of  
human resources
Pursuing efficiency 
through Morning-Focused 
Working System, etc.
Increasing 
Awareness of 
Participation in 
Management
Utilizing the Employee 
Shareholding 
Association to enable 
medium- to long-term 
asset formation
Challenging but 
Rewarding Workplace
Strengthening Front-line 
Capabilities Focused and 
Realizing “Sampo-yoshi ”
Emphasizing Diversity and 
Maximizing Potential
Enhancing Health
Developing an 
 environment where 
employees can 
 continue working 
with peace of mind
Providing Evaluation 
and Compensation  
Commensurate with Results
Promoting growth by  increasing  
feedback and level of  
understanding
Supporting Employee-Led 
Career Development
Creating growth opportunities 
based on each individual’s  
aptitudes
3030
Recruiting Outstanding Human Resources
Enhancing corporate brand and the value of human resources
The number of non-consolidated employees at ITOCHU 
is the lowest among Japan’s general trading companies, 
and the Company will, as a policy, remain a small select 
organization of capable individuals. To rack up even more 
successful accomplishments with a small number of non-
consolidated employees, we are focusing our recruitment 
activities on securing excellent human resources who 
embrace the corporate mission of “Sampo-yoshi.”
In recent years, ITOCHU has clinched the top spots in 
company rankings among jobseekers, which is proof that 
students regard ITOCHU as a sustainable company 
worthy of entrusting their own lives to.
Company ranking among jobseekers 
according to seven major institutions*
“All Industries”
- two consecutive years -
“General Trading Companies”
- four consecutive years -
No.1 (from four institutions)
No.1 (from seven institutions)
*  From 2024 graduates, the Company ranked No.1 among all industries in the 
survey of four institutions; the Asahi Shimbun, the Yomiuri Shimbun / Toyo 
Keizai, the Sankei Shimbun, and Shukan Diamond, and ranked No.1 among 
general trading companies in the survey of four institutions mentioned above 
as well as seven institutions including the Nippon Keizai Shimbun, Nikkei 
Business (Rakuten), and Nikkei Business (DISCO).
Evolving Work Styles
Pursuing efficiency through Morning-Focused Working System, etc.
The first measure for our unique work-style reforms was to 
establish “I-Kids,” which is a childcare center for employees, 
in January 2010. At the time, there were such social prob-
lems as rising numbers of children on waiting lists due to a 
shortage of certified daycare facilities. We decided to open 
“I-Kids” next to our Tokyo Headquarters, with the aim of 
removing barriers to continued employment and bolstering 
employee motivation to keep working after childbirth. After 
then-President Okafuji became president in April 2010, a 
suite of work-style reforms was begun in full gear.
  Following the Great East Japan Earthquake in 2011, we 
also decided to return to work styles focused on the front 
lines where we would be close to customers, and so we 
abolished the flextime system. Then, in FYE 2014, we 
introduced the Morning-Focused Working System. We 
prohibited overtime work past 8:00 p.m., in principle, and if 
people had to work overtime, we encouraged them to 
instead do so early the next morning between 5:00 a.m. 
and 8:00 a.m. By coming in early, they have enough time 
to prepare for sales consultations with customers and can 
work more effectively. We urged employees to change 
their behavior by providing employees who begin work 
Trend in Birthrates
before 8:00 a.m. with a higher wage rate and free break-
fast, as an incentive. In the ensuing decade, the Morning-
Focused Working System has become entrenched in the 
Company. This has not only changed employee mindsets 
regarding time but also supported the activities of employ-
ees who have restrictions on their work hours due to child-
care, nursing care, illnesses, or other factors. The system 
has also helped enhance employee job satisfaction in part 
by creating time to spend with family and for 
self-improvement.
  Recently, the declining birthrate is becoming a major 
social issue in entire Japan. Since ITOCHU introduced the 
Morning-Focused Working System, the birthrate for female 
employees has risen. In FYE 2022, the rate was 1.97, 
compared with a national figure of 1.30* and 1.08* in 
Tokyo. We consider this a major accomplishment of our 
suite of work-style reforms, especially the Morning-
Focused Working System. We will continue striving to fur-
ther enhance labor productivity through the evolution of 
work styles in line with the diverse values of employees.
*  Total annual fertility rate for 2021 in demographic statistics released by 
the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare 
FYE 2014
Morning-Focused Working System introduced
FYE 2018
Support for Balancing Cancer Care and Work started
FYE 2022
Women’s Advancement Committee established
1.41
1.09
0.60
13
 Birthrate (ITOCHU) 
1.54
1.45
1.24
16
1.60
1.42
1.20
19
 Birthrate (Japan) 
 Birthrate (Tokyo)
1.87
1.33
1.12
21
1.97
1.30
1.08
22 (FYE)
31
 
 
