morality, and embracing a philosophy focused solely on 
putting profits first.
Kobayashi:  
Turning now to the modern era, Japanese companies 
have been adopting concepts and systems based on 
European and American shareholder capitalism. To date, 
they mainly undertake management with maximizing 
shareholder returns as its mission. Now, however, in line 
with the idea that the pursuit of shareholder profit alone 
cannot guarantee the sustainability of companies, “stake-
holder capitalism” is being increasingly emphasized, start-
ing with Europe and the United States. This revives the 
spirit and sense of mission that our two founding fathers 
held close to their hearts, and their mission of enriching the 
world through business. With a universality transcending 
both eras and borders, their vision is making a comeback.
Shibusawa:  
To avoid simply replicating superficial imitations of 
European and American concepts, and also to uphold our 
own traditional Japanese spirit, Eiichi Shibusawa professed 
that we should value not just the “How,” but also the 
“Why.” Companies will not exist in perpetuity if they only 
have good management processes and methods. I believe 
that the “power of human” is the source of a company’s 
sustainability. ITOCHU has now grown to become a huge 
company, despite its humble beginnings as a small start-
up when it was founded. Over the long course of over 160 
years since its founding, I believe ITOCHU has been able 
to sustain its operations by maintaining a trailblazing spirit 
throughout each new era, and also by endeavoring to 
meet the diverse and changing needs.
   Sustainability Unique to General Trading 
Companies
Kobayashi:  
In the pursuit of progress with our sustainability going for-
ward, we remain well aware of the need to avoid merely 
continuing to do the same things as in the past in order 
to ensure the sustainability of our Company. I would be 
very grateful if you could offer your advice and guidance 
related to ITOCHU’s vision and the direction in which our 
Company should head.
Shibusawa:  
When we talk about sustainability, companies and stake-
holders need a “common language.” General trading com-
panies operate a wide range of businesses across diverse 
industries, with varying positions in the business flow pro-
cess ranging from upstream to downstream. Also, the 
businesses of trading companies are intricately woven into 
people’s day-to-day lives. Consequently, there has been 
an organic increase in the external demands and expecta-
tions which general trading companies need to consider. 
Accordingly, there are many sustainability issues that need 
to be addressed, and I am sure ITOCHU receives various 
guidance on them. But I think what ITOCHU needs to 
avoid is just passively responding to this multitude of 
issues. Instead, ITOCHU should proactively advocate its 
core philosophies that have enabled it to establish a strong 
track record of sustainability reflected in its over 160 years 
of operations. For example, the differing positions on and 
status of GHG emissions reductions in each country make 
it a difficult course to navigate. And while developed coun-
tries aim to withdraw from fossil fuel burning activities, 
emerging and developing countries will still need coal and 
other inexpensive sources of fuel for their ongoing devel-
opment. I think it is somewhat unrealistic to expect these 
countries to avoid the use of any fossil fuels, but I expect 
ITOCHU to work on resolving issues in various countries 
by providing new technologies and solutions cultivated 
from its involvement in a diverse range of businesses.
Kobayashi:  
In accordance with our medium-term management plan, 
ITOCHU has laid out “Enhancing our contribution to and 
engagement with the SDGs through business activities” 
as one of our basic policies. Our Company was the only 
one among the general trading companies to have dis-
closed information on GHG emissions from all of its 
related fossil fuel businesses and interests. Moreover, we 
formulated targets that newly include the concept of “off-
sets” in the context of GHG emissions reduction. By FYE 
2022, we sold three of four thermal coal interests that we 
held in FYE 2019 as part of our efforts to reduce GHG 
emissions from fossil fuel businesses and interests. Our 
Company aims to achieve the Japanese Government’s 
“2050 Carbon Neutral” goal 10 years ahead of schedule, 
in 2040, by leveraging business expansion in areas such 
as renewable energy to help offset and reduce our 
Company’s own GHG emissions. However, I feel that 
Scope3 emissions disclosure poses a major challenge for 
ITOCHU because it operates businesses with a huge 
number of companies across supply chains in a wide 
range of business fields. (
Change and Related Initiatives)
 Page 78 Approach to Climate 
Shibusawa:  
This appears to be an issue that is unique to general 
trading companies. When I have conversations with over-
seas experts, it is assumed to disclose estimates; how-
ever, people in Japan worry about how accurately they 
can disclose GHG emissions from the upstream to the 
downstream. The criteria for Scope3 emissions disclo-
sure is still being discussed overseas as well, so for 
example by conducting flexible initiatives such as proac-
tively identifying the range of Scope3 emissions to be dis-
closed based on the characteristics of its businesses and 
demonstrating the relationship with financial information, I 
think ITOCHU could become a leading model for compa-
nies facing similar issues. 
37
Ken Shibusawa
CEO, Shibusawa and Company, Inc.
After gaining extensive market experience at foreign financial institutions and hedge 
funds over many years, Ken Shibusawa set out on his own in 2001 to found 
Shibusawa and Company, Inc., where he assumed the role of CEO. In 2007, he 
founded Commons, Inc., which was subsequently renamed Commons Asset 
Management, Inc. in 2008, and took on the position of Chair. In January 2023, he 
founded &Capital Inc., where he currently is Representative Director & CEO. 
Furthermore, he is active in a wide variety of roles, including his positions as member 
of various government panels such as the Council of New Form of Capitalism 
Realization. He is also the great-great-grandson of Eiichi Shibusawa, who is widely 
known as “the father of Japanese capitalism.”
Fumihiko Kobayashi
Member of the Board,
Executive Vice President, CAO*
* Chief Administrative Officer
CAO
DIALOGUE
“RONGO (Ethics) and SOROBAN (Economy)” and 
“Sampo-yoshi”
Mr. Ken Shibusawa and CAO Kobayashi talked about visualizing the “non-visible value” 
of companies and the way sustainability runs through the past, present, and future.
   A Sense of Mission Shared by Entrepreneurs 
Who Lived in the Same Era
Kobayashi:  
ITOCHU is proud of our 165 year history of sustained 
operations since our founding in 1858, when Chubei Itoh 
I commenced linen trading operations. Counting from 
when he opened the first store called “Benchu” in 
Osaka’s Honmachi area in 1872, 2022 marked the 150th 
anniversary of our Company. Notably, that was also 
around the same time that Eiichi Shibusawa, regarded as 
“the father of Japanese capitalism,” resigned from the 
Ministry of Finance, entered the business world, and 
launched his own business. Shibusawa’s book, “RONGO 
(Ethics) and SOROBAN (Economy),” details a manage-
ment philosophy that explains how businesses are des-
tined to fail if the balance between profits and morality is 
36
not achieved. Chubei Itoh I also adhered to the philoso-
phy that trade is a “compassionate business,” and that a 
business will fail if it does not equally benefit the seller, the 
buyer, and society—also commonly known in Japan as 
the philosophy called “Sampo-yoshi.” I think these two 
men had a lot in common regarding their business poli-
cies and philosophies.
Shibusawa:  
Yes, indeed. Firstly, the Shibusawas were originally farm-
ers of indigo and silkworms, so they were involved in the 
textile business and shared that in common with the 
Itohs. As Japan’s modernization progressed amid the 
drastic changes of the era, both men broadened their 
perspectives beyond their family businesses to embrace 
a common sense of duty to help enrich the world through 
business. I also believe that they worried about society’s 
divergence away from the “bushido” philosophy and 
