Tsuyoshi Hachimura
Member of the Board,
Executive Vice President, CFO
CFO INTERVIEW
We will continue to enhance “high-quality management,”  
maintaining financial and capital strategies that optimally com-
bine “offense,” “defense,” and “preparations,” without letting our 
guard down against rapid changes in the business environment.
   Please explain your overall assessment of the 
financial and capital strategies in FYE 2023.
   It was a year in which we saw solid results from 
our consistent financial and capital strategies.
Since becoming CFO in FYE 2016, I have repeatedly 
stated that it is important to balance three factors (share-
holder returns, growth investments, and control of inter-
est-bearing debt) by appropriately assessing the business 
environment at the time. I have therefore focused on real-
izing high ROE, achieving positive core free cash flows 
after deducting shareholder returns, and thoroughly con-
ducting hands-on management. It has been especially 
important these past few years, with the business envi-
ronment changing rapidly, that we had to be mindful of 
both the equity side as well as the credit side, which at 
times conflict with each other, without tilting too much to 
either side. I believe executing well-balanced and consis-
tent financial and capital strategies leads to highly effi-
cient “high-quality management,” which will ultimately 
bring sustainability to our corporate value enhancement.
In line with this belief on the equity side, ITOCHU’s 
share price during the period of the medium-term man-
agement plan “Brand-new Deal 2023 (FYE 2022–2024)” 
set 43 record highs as of August 31, 2023. This was 
driven by a rise in our profit level to the ¥800.0 billion 
stage, and the consistent shareholder returns policy laid 
out subsequently, as well as being buoyed in part by yen 
depreciation and the “Buffett effect.” We think that this 
steady increase in share price shows the high expecta-
tions of investors and shareholders, as well as the high 
evaluation they continue to extend to the Company’s 
management.
  We also made progress on the credit side. ITOCHU’s 
credit rating was upgraded in FYE 2023 by the major 
overseas rating agency Moody’s, as well as major 
Japanese rating agencies Rating & Investment 
Information (R&I) and Japan Credit Rating Agency (JCR). 
In particular, the upgrade by Moody’s marked the first 
upgrade in credit rating for Japanese companies with an 
A rating since FYE 2020. As a result, we have secured 
the highest rating among general trading companies from 
every rating agency. Since our rating was last upgraded 
in FYE 2018, and especially since FYE 2022 when the 
anticipations of the post-pandemic recovery were height-
ened, expectations of shareholder returns for general 
trading companies have been high. To meet the expecta-
tions, ITOCHU has steadily enhanced its shareholder 
returns. However, amid a highly uncertain business envi-
ronment, I have crafted and implemented consistent 
financial and capital strategies with the strong belief that 
54
Achieve High ROE While Balancing Three Factors
Shareholder 
Returns
Growth  
Investments
Control of Interest-
Bearing Debt
reinforcing shareholders’ equity and improving financial 
indicators are essential and ultimately ensure stable cor-
porate management and higher corporate value. The fact 
that ITOCHU refined its highly efficient earnings base and 
cash generation capability, together with executing finan-
cial and capital strategies that create a virtuous cycle 
leading to the further improvement of our financial indica-
tors and reinforcement of shareholders’ equity, which 
increases risk resilience, led to the upgrades from the 
credit rating agencies. This enabled more flexible and 
diverse funding, further widening our options including 
bond issuances, and is sure to be a significant advantage 
to ITOCHU as we continue to consider growth invest-
ments, especially while the uncertainties lingering ahead.
  Numerous IR activities underpin these efforts. In addi-
tion to securing its credit rating, the Company focuses on 
compiling the annual report as its most fair disclosure 
tool. ITOCHU delivered solid achievements last fiscal 
year, including receiving the highest evaluation from all 
three major awards for the annual report, which was the 
first accomplishment in Japan. We believe this kind of 
steady enhancement of non-financial capital, coupled 
with the aforementioned expansion of financial capital, 
will lead to higher overall corporate value, and ITOCHU 
will continue to commit to engaging in proactive IR 
activities.
   What is the shareholder returns policy for 
FYE 2024?
   As always, we commit to the steady enhance-
ment of shareholder returns that are not 
swayed by economic volatility.
The two key points of our basic shareholder returns 
policy during the period of “Brand-new Deal 2023” are, 
“implementation of incremental increase to the minimum 
dividend and achieving a dividend payout ratio of 30% by 
FYE 2024” and “actively and continuously executing 
share buybacks.” The meaning of “actively and continu-
ously” regarding share buybacks is that, in the event that 
the dividends based on our progressive dividend policy 
seem to fall short, we will assess the status of surplus 
capital at the time and continuously conduct share buy-
backs in an effort to enhance shareholder returns.
In early October 2022, we announced the “Upward 
Revision of FYE 2023 Forecast and Additional 
Shareholder Returns.” After revising our FYE 2023 fore-
cast for consolidated net profit upward to ¥800.0 billion, 
we announced a ¥30 year-on-year increase in dividend 
per share (DPS) to ¥140, equivalent to a dividend payout 
ratio of 25.6%, and share buybacks totaling ¥35.0 billion. 
As ITOCHU aims to achieve a dividend payout ratio of 
30% by FYE 2024, the market seemed to feel that this 
fell somewhat short. To meet market expectations amid 
this situation, we announced additional share buybacks 
of ¥25.0 billion in February 2023 for a cumulative total of 
¥60.0 billion. By raising the total payout ratio to 33%, we 
showed our stance to the market that ITOCHU would 
stand by its commitment of achieving a dividend payout 
ratio of 30% by FYE 2024, the final year of our medium-
term management plan.
In light of this development, for the initial plan for FYE 
2024, we announced a ¥20 year-on-year increase in DPS 
to ¥160, a dividend payout ratio of 30%, along with con-
solidated net profit of ¥780.0 billion. At the same time, 
we stated our policy of ensuring the total payout ratio 
does not fall below 33%, which we reached in FYE 2023.
  As for the share buyback announced in August 2023, 
our intention is to fulfill the commitment made at the begin-
ning of the fiscal year by conducting the ¥25.0 billion as 
quickly as possible in the first place. Additionally, by 
extending our track record for share buybacks to eight 
consecutive years, we demonstrate the continuity of our 
policies. We will always focus on “actively and continu-
ously,” and enhance our shareholder returns in FYE 2024.
A Positive Cycle of Dialogue and  
Corporate Value Enhancement
Sustainably Enhance 
Corporate Value
Dialogue
Reflection in 
Management Measures
Issues
55
 
 
 
 
 
