Special Feature 2: Polishing Our Existing Business and New Steppingstones
Polishing and Further Expanding the Earnings Base of the North American 
Construction Materials Business through a Hands-on Management Style
The hands-on management style practiced by ITOCHU is able to carefully refine each business by deploying ITOCHU’s 
management, sales and administrative personnel to key positions and frontline operations at investee companies. Once 
positioned overseas, our employees become deeply embedded into the local operations as part of our hands-on man-
agement style. The Company’s employees work closely with local employees to expand their company’s business and 
sustainably enhance its corporate value after learning about the trade customs and cultures of a particular country.
The North American Construction Materials 
Business: In the Early 2010s
MASTER-HALCO, Inc. (MH) engages in the manufacturing 
and wholesale of chain link fences at its own manufacturing 
facilities and through its own sales offices and distribution 
network covering all of North America. Despite having a net-
work of prime customers including major home improve-
ment retailers, MH continued to see losses in its operations 
since the global recession of 2008. ITOCHU had considered 
exiting the business. However, given the robust forecast 
called for continued strong growth in the North American 
market, etc., we decided to implement efforts to restruc-
ture MH by dispatching personnel well-versed in the 
North American business, and utilizing its hands-on 
 management style.
Scott Suh
Director,  
President & CEO
Kotaro Yamamoto
Director,  
President & CEO
Anan Ogawa
Business Analysis and 
Sales Strategy Manager
 CIPA Lumber
 Pacific Woodtech
 Alta Forest Products
 US Premier Tube Mills
 ITOCHU Building Products Holdings
 MASTER-HALCO
Michiru Nakagawa
Director of New  
Business Development
Glenn Shenk
Senior Vice President of 
Sales and Operations
Saiki Matsui
Distribution Resource 
Planning Specialist
Transition of the North American Construction 
Materials Business
Number of locations
Number of employees
Number of seconded employees
Consolidated net income (Billions of yen)
FYE 2016
63
886
11
1.4
FYE 2023
93
2,160
26
21.7
68
Refining MH Business through a Hands-On 
Management Style: After the Late 2010s
Management Reform of MH
The top priority was to urgently eliminate the losses, so 
ITOCHU dispatched personnel experienced in practicing 
our “cut” and “prevent” principles to a wide range of 
positions, including top management and the front lines. 
In addition to closing unprofitable factories and branches, 
which had consistently generated losses in the past, we 
revamped MH’s backbone system (ERP) that had not 
been renewed in about 20 years. We also established a 
management system capable of making detailed demand 
forecasts. These efforts succeeded, and we achieved 
profitability in FYE 2017. And to build an even more 
robust earnings base, we continued to promote further 
reforms. Utilizing our know-how gained from the business 
investment and trade, ITOCHU introduced refined pricing 
strategies, strict inventory management, and remunera-
tion systems linked to profit rather than sales. In addition 
to these measures, marketing and sales activities were 
conducted mainly by local employees with a deep under-
standing of North American trade practices. As a result, 
our profit margin steadily improved, and we worked hard 
to strengthen our earnings base.
Expanding the Multifaceted, Linked Businesses 
in Existing Businesses
To achieve further profit growth and enhance customer 
services, multiple investments have been made in order to 
create synergies related to MH. We did not rely solely on 
acquisition candidates recommended by external sources, 
but instead conducted active research on our own to iden-
tify potential target companies based on our experiences 
and knowledge derived from our involvement with frontline 
operations, including the customers, competitors, and 
suppliers. Thus, we avoided overpaying and utilized know-
how gained from the business reforms implemented at MH 
to improve its performance and swiftly realize latent syner-
gies. In the North American construction materials busi-
ness, we pursued multiple strategic acquisitions and swiftly 
identified market trends and consumer needs by thor-
oughly conducting hands-on management and strength-
ening frontline operations. Sharing such information among 
our relevant group companies has helped us to success-
fully reform businesses using a market-oriented perspec-
tive to rapidly reflect market trends in the management of 
each company, and to establish a business foundation, 
capable of implementing effective initiatives throughout the 
entire supply chain.
Acquisition of Alta Forest Products LLC (ALTA), a leading U.S. Wooden Fence Manufacturer
In FYE 2018, ITOCHU and ITOCHU International Inc. acquired a wooden fence manufacturer ALTA. Given that MH’s mainstay product was chain 
link fences for commercial facilities and with an eye to the residential fence market, which was expected to see robust growth due in part to the 
rising population, we constructed a new pillar of revenue through this acquisition successfully. ALTA commands an overwhelming presence in the 
production of residential fences made with high-grade western red cedar. This type of wood is considered to be a premium material and is very 
popular among affluent customers. Moreover, after buying ALTA we succeeded in improving profitability through effective data management, 
development of attractive products using MH’s market data, and strengthened relationships with major home improvement retailers through 
efforts to improve the product brand awareness. Consequently, these efforts enabled us to expand the earnings base of ALTA.
Acquisition of Jamieson Manufacturing Co. (Jamieson), a U.S. Fence Manufacturer and Wholesaler
In FYE 2020, MH acquired its industry peer Jamieson and quickly went to work to successfully expand its sales channels and cultivate new cus-
tomers. Subsequently, MH fully integrated Jamieson in FYE 2021, thereby merging their sales strategies and further expanding the earnings base. 
Furthermore, the number of consumer contact points increased through an expanded network of major home improvement retailers afforded by 
the integration, and has led to stronger product development that accurately identifies customer needs.
Acquisition of US Premier Tube Mills LLC (USPTM), a U.S. Chain Link Fence Pipe Manufacturer
In FYE 2021, MH acquired USPTM, which was a supplier of pipes for chain link fences. The founder of USPTM had been considering a business 
transfer due to his age, and he approached MH for a direct sale after recognizing that MH had developed a strong presence in the chain link 
fence industry after the acquisition of Jamieson. By acquiring USPTM, MH expanded its supply chain and enabled the in-house production of 
major components for chain link fences.
Trade
Business investment
Synergies
ITOCHU personnel
Suppliers
Business investees
ITOCHU Building
Products Holdings*
MH / Jamieson
Downstream
Steppingstones for Creating New Added Value
IBP was founded in April 2022, and centralization of group 
companies, their business administrative functions (such 
as accounting, human resources, and IT), and infrastruc-
ture (such as ERP systems) under IBP was undertaken 
to raise the earnings generating capabilities of this group 
of companies. Also, IBP established systems to make 
 various business decisions, including those regarding 
acquisitions, in a quicker and more effective manner by 
consolidating information gained from the front lines of 
 relevant group companies. 
  Going forward, in addition to investing in outdoor resi-
dential-related businesses such as decking, which is 
expected to have synergy with the existing fence busi-
ness, IBP is considering entering the residential wood 
business, etc., by combining the product development 
capabilities and factory operation know-how of DAIKEN 
CORPORATION [in August 2023, ITOCHU announced a 
tender offer bid for DAIKEN CORPORATION], a business 
partner in the housing structural materials business (CIPA 
Lumber Co. Ltd. and Pacific Woodtech Corporation), 
USPTM
ALTA
Upstream
*  ITOCHU Building Products Holdings Inc. (IBP) was established 
in April 2022. MH, Jamieson, ALTA, and USPTM were trans-
ferred under IBP’s scope to centralize the business 
foundations.
 Page 111 Acquisition of North American 
with our customer and distribution network and business 
management know-how. We intend to  further expand our 
product lineup and value chain and strengthen our earn-
ings base. (
Engineered Wood Products (Posts and Beams) Business)
  At the same time, we will continue to focus on training 
managers to fortify their sense of international perspective 
and hands-on management style, which are necessary for 
our business expansion. In the North American construction 
materials business, we have conducted systematic person-
nel training. We dispatch junior employees to the front lines 
so that they can gain an understanding of industry practices 
and the nature of the businesses while accumulating front-
line operational experience. We then promote them to man-
agement levels within the Group companies. Going forward, 
we will endeavor to create an optimal structure through 
methods such as training personnel who can apply 
ITOCHU’s unique hands-on management style to local 
workplaces. We will continue building a robust management 
system to fortify the earnings generating capabilities of the 
North American construction materials business.
69
