Driving Force for Sustainable Value Creation 
The Story of Merchants
Starting out as 
a Merchant, 
Continuing 
on the Path of 
Merchants 
ITOCHU inherited and practices the merchant 
spirit of Chubei Itoh I, that has spawned a unique 
corporate culture and led to an accumulation of 
strengths. In recent years, we have been shoring 
up our foundations as we unleash each of our 
potential strengths. We have formulated 
“Sampo-yoshi,” the business philosophy of 
the merchants of Ohmi originated from the 
personal motto of Chubei Itoh I, as the corpo-
rate mission of the ITOCHU Group, taking 
this as another step toward the sustainable 
 expansion of corporate value. 
22
Earning Trust as Merchants
Ohmi Province (present-day Shiga Prefecture) was sepa-
rated from the commercial centers of Osaka and Edo (now 
Tokyo). To conduct trade, the merchants of Ohmi traveled 
on foot balancing their wares on carrying poles from Ohmi, 
where Japan’s major travel arteries of Tokaido and 
Nakasendo meet. For business discussions, they used 
samples. Ordered products would then be delivered from 
far away at a later date, so cultivating a spirit of trust was 
essential. A management philosophy that values trust has 
been passed down through the Company’s top manage-
ments throughout the years. Its spirit is evident in the 
“commitment-based management” that aims to consis-
tently achieve targets each fiscal year. Each fiscal year, we 
work steadfastly to turn words into accomplishments, 
 recognizing that earning trust in the capital markets is key 
to long-term management success.
(Photo courtesy of Archival Museum for the Faculty of Economics at Shiga University)
Based in the former Ohmi Province, the merchants of Ohmi transported their wares on 
carrying poles, peddling items into other provinces (pursuing business in all parts of 
Japan from the Kansai region). ITOCHU was started by Chubei Itoh I, who engaged 
in the linen trade. 
Merchants: Always Thrifty
Being thrifty dates back to the Company’s origins. The 
 importance of frugality and learning were essential 
elements of the “store rule (tanaho)” established in 1872. 
Also, it is recorded in the post World War II period that 
each  organization within the Company operated as a finan-
cially independent entity, paying the headquarters for the 
space it uses (store rent). In addition to the itinerant trading 
business, where margins were slim, this emphasis harks 
back to the Company’s origins in the textile business. 
Different from businesses in heavy industry, in the textile 
business prices were negotiated down to the cents and 
profits were based on the steady accumulation of efforts. 
Thrift was a historical necessity. The ITOCHU Group retains 
this emphasis up to the present day, carried forward in its 
ongoing efforts to “cut” costs, maximizing results while 
minimizing investment. As a result, we have achieved 
 overwhelmingly high ratio of Group companies reporting 
profits—about 90%. Consolidated net profit continues to 
grow, and our capital efficiency remains at the top tier of 
the industry. 
