Management Messages
CEO Message
I want everyone to witness the 
unsurpassed reliability that our 
“commitment-based management” 
consistently achieves when we 
fully leverage the “true business 
power” of ITOCHU and the 
“combined power” of all Group 
employees working together.
behind the promises we make to our shareholders and 
 investors.” This is also the mercantile belief that has been 
steadily passed down from Chubei Itoh I. I have heard 
some people assert that “achieving our targets requires 
workers on the front lines to overextend themselves.” I 
would answer, however, “that wouldn’t necessarily be bad 
for a single year, but such exertion would be unsustainable 
over a decade or so.” Overexerting ourselves is definitely 
not the way we make it possible to continuously keep our 
promises. Of course, a medium- to long-term vision and 
quantitative targets are important, but these are all mean-
ingless unless we take responsibility for achieving them in 
the future. Similarly, targets that lack focus, which are set 
just to please everybody, are worthless. I hope that share-
holders and investors will develop their own processes 
to assess the achievements businesses are making, as 
well as the progress companies are making toward the 
medium- to long-term vision and quantitative targets 
over the course of several years.
  FYE 2020 was the brightest year in ITOCHU’s more than 
160-year history. From FYE 2021 onward, however, we will 
have to endure headwinds unlike any experienced before.
A Year that Will Test Our  
“True Business Power”
During good times, anybody can handle management. But 
that is not the case when headwinds begin to blow. Going 
forward, our “true business power” will be tested. I realize 
that I will need to remain vigilant to avoid overconfidence.
  Due to the extraordinary progress and results of FYE 
2019 and 2020, we achieved the medium-term manage-
ment plan “Brand-new Deal 2020” ahead of schedule. We 
therefore positioned FYE 2021 as a year to prepare for the 
future and achieve a solid footing through a single-year 
management plan. Amid a business environment where 
COVID-19 clouds the future, many companies have not 
formulated their initial plans for FYE 2021. ITOCHU, 
however, believes its “responsibility to stakeholders” 
includes disclosing one-year targets, and we announced a 
consolidated net profit plan of ¥400.0 billion after carefully 
considering the known risks we can analyze.
  Unlike the global financial crisis where the corrective 
14
course of action was clear, this time we have to wait for the 
development of treatments and vaccines. It will take con-
siderable time until consumer confidence and investment 
appetite recover. We need to prepare ourselves for the 
risks of sudden, repeated plunges in market prices, exchange 
rates, share prices, and other indices. During these times, 
it is clear what we need to do: Go back to the “basics 
of business.”
Returning to Our “Earn, Cut,  
Prevent” Principles
Back in my days at the Textile Company, I was competing 
with other companies for the exclusive sales rights to 
Armani. I appealed to my negotiating partner’s sympathies 
by, for example, compiling the data they wanted on 
Japanese taxes in a thick Italian-language proposal. 
Ultimately, ITOCHU was able to beat out rivals who had 
offered larger sums of money. In a business situation 
similar to this, the game is won by being able to figure out 
precisely what the partner wants and delivering those “fine 
distinctions.” Academic theories and treatises do not do 
much good in these situations.
  Similarly, in management, merely compiling data and 
logic would not lead to deeper understanding. Grasping 
the bigger picture and thinking about “what should be 
done” is what constitutes management. Looking more 
closely, I think management means deciding what to 
 emphasize among the three “earn, cut, prevent” principles 
in response to the business environment over time.
  With the global economy on the brink of recession and 
sales channels facing bottlenecks, we need to focus on the 
“prevent” and “cut” principles more than the “earn” princi-
ple. Fundamentals will prove invaluable. For example, we 
will need to closely assess the contract terms of every 
business transaction to carefully manage credit and inven-
tories, take proactive and exhaustive measures to collect 
debt, and perform thorough cost / benefit analyses of 
business expenses and adjust accordingly. Now, with the 
outlook unclear, I intend to engage in methodical manage-
ment more diligently than ever before.
In addition to comprehensively practicing lean manage-
ment, we also need to prepare for business model 
