Steppingstones to Medium- to Long-Term Value Creation
Viewing Environmental Issues as 
Business Opportunities
Based on the ITOCHU Group corporate mission of “Sampo-yoshi,” we are working to resolve social issues 
such as exponential population growth and climate change by supplying diverse products and services, 
creating new businesses, and flexibly and actively conducting asset replacement, while ensuring that we 
maintain and improve our earning power. 
  We see opportunities in the resolution of environmental issues in particular. By leveraging our distinctive 
accumulated business know-how, we are committed to expanding and actively promoting our environmental 
business.
Continuously Increasing Corporate Value by Providing Resolutions to Environmental and Social 
Issues through Our Infrastructure Business
ITOCHU has positioned the environmental and renewable energy 
supply and sewage services in the Canary Islands, Spain. In 
business as one of its focus fields, and is developing projects 
seawater desalination projects, ITOCHU has moved beyond its 
globally that contribute to upgrading urban environments and 
traditional sales of water treatment facilities and equipment by 
reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. In particular, as 
participating in seawater desalination projects in Victoria, Australia 
 environmental conservation-oriented businesses that contribute 
in 2009 and Oman in 2016, transforming this field into a strength 
to sustainable social development, we have actively promoted 
by continuously refining its accumulated business expertise. 
Energy-from-Waste (EfW) projects and water-related projects 
Commercial operation of the Barka Seawater Desalination Plant 
from an early stage, building up expertise in these businesses. 
started in 2018, with the largest water production capacity in 
In response to the United Kingdom tightened its waste manage-
Oman, where it plays an important role in the stable supply of daily 
ment legislation and policy, ITOCHU took the opportunity to enter 
life water. By contributing to securing safe, economical water re-
the local EfW market in 2002. As of 2020, we have constructed 
sources for countries, we will broaden our business opportunities.
and operated four EfW facilities, which process around 15% of the 
ITOCHU will continuously play a vital role in society through  
country’s incinerated waste. We are now using the business exper-
its infrastructure business, realizing a circular economy and sus-
tise and strong partnerships cultivated in the United Kingdom to 
tainable resource use with the goal of preserving the earth’s en-
expand into other areas. In 2017, we teamed up with French water 
vironment and resolving social issues, while sustainably 
and environmental utility major SUEZ S.A. to participate jointly in an 
increasing its corporate value. 
EfW project in Belgrade, Serbia, the first major Public Private 
Partnership (PPP) in the country. The project will help to resolve en-
vironmental and social issues through the closure and remediation 
Circular Mechanism in the EfW Business
of the Europe’s largest unsanitary landfill that has caused serious 
environmental damage. At the same time, we will construct and 
operate an EfW facility that will treat around 70% of the total mu-
nicipal waste generated in Belgrade, using the waste heat from its 
incineration to supply electricity and heat equivalent to the power 
consumption of around 30,000 local houses.
  Furthermore, with population increase and climate change 
expected to drive growth in demand for the water-related 
business, ITOCHU is providing high-quality, sustainable, economic 
water services through water supply, waste water treatment, and 
seawater desalination projects. In 2012, ITOCHU became the first 
Japanese company to participate in the water service business in 
the United Kingdom, followed in 2014 by participation in water 
Please see our website below for further information about initiatives in the waste business
 https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/csr/sustainability_activities/2020/index.html#activity_machinery
59
