maximize shareholder returns. Once a consensus formed 
among institutional investors and leaders in the business 
world that pursuing only shareholder returns would not 
ensure the sustainability of a company, the SDGs and ESG 
investment began to catch on as an underlying trend. SDGs 
and ESG concepts encourage companies to contribute to 
the development of the world by increasing benefits for 
people other than shareholders, while also striving to 
increase shareholder value. I believe these concepts align 
perfectly with the sayings of Chubei Itoh I. ITOCHU’s cor-
porate  activities carry on the spirit of Chubei Itoh I, guided 
by the idea that trade “accords with the spirit of Buddha.” 
To put it another way in modern-day language, companies 
have the mission of bringing profits to society at large.
Usami: The merchants of Ohmi’s idea of returning profit to 
society is deeply rooted in their practice of “evenly splitting 
net profit three ways.” Retailers were the customers of 
merchants of Ohmi, which were effectively wholesalers, 
and people living in the region, who bought this merchan-
dise, were the customers of these retailers. If the people 
did not have stable lifestyles, the merchants would not 
be able to conduct trade for long, and this is why the mer-
chants of Ohmi were keen to make sure people in their 
target region could carry out their lives without disruption. 
It is noteworthy that the merchants naturally adopted the 
concept of “intoku zenji,” or constantly making improve-
ments without outwardly telling other people. Not only 
 providing aid to people after natural disasters struck, 
the merchants also helped the impoverished in regional 
communities, by employing people in the construction of 
non-essential storehouses and residences. Such “helpful” 
construction was one example of how the merchants 
gave back to the world (“good for society”). Rooted in 
the Friedman-style concept of free market capitalism, 
 businesses in Europe and the United States sought to 
maximize profits as the ultimate good. In contrast, the mer-
chants of Ohmi, which valued collective harmony precondi-
tioned on mutual aid, had clearly different views on profits. 
Their idea that employees were joint partners also tends to 
be dismissed from the viewpoint of free market capitalism. 
I believe it is important to nurture ideal values depending 
on historical and cultural perspectives. 
Kobayashi: ITOCHU’s current approach to business, 
sharing its value between the Company, employees, share-
holders and other providers of capital, suppliers, and 
society aligns with the idea of “evenly splitting net profit 
three ways.” For example, ITOCHU’s Stock Compensation 
Scheme is designed with the intention of improving the 
awareness of employees’ participation in management. 
Usami: The merchants of Ohmi dealt with the society, a 
collective entity of specific minorities connected together 
28
by relationships. Modern corporations deal with society, a 
collection of an unknown number of independent individu-
als. The scope of profit distribution has spread to areas 
where there are no direct transactions. If profits are distrib-
uted to broader society, pursuing more profits in itself is not 
a negative thing. When pursuing profits, however, it must 
not be forgotten that profits should not be pursued just 
for the sake of profits. In other words, it is essential that  
corporations engage in “trading in good faith.” Among the 
merchants of Ohmi, the phrase “regretting after the sale 
is the essence as the merchants” was conveyed. They 
believed that even if a selling price were regretfully low,  
intentionally selling at this price to a willing buyer would 
gain the trust of the customer and lead to more profits over 
the long run. Chubei Itoh I encouraged cash transactions, 
in which buyers (retailers) purchase merchandise within 
their own financial capacity, without putting them at  
a disadvantage, such as by loading them with unnecessary 
inventories. I believe this is one example of “trading in good 
faith” with due consideration given to the customer. By 
gaining the trust of customers and forming relationships 
based on this trust, profits can increase in perpetuity. By 
distributing these profits to the world, the concept of 
“evenly splitting net profit three ways” is an idea similar 
to SDGs in modern society, in my opinion. 
Kobayashi: The word “trust” in Professor Usami’s 
comments is a key word that the merchants of Ohmi have 
in common with ITOCHU today. The linen trading that 
Chubei Itoh I began with his carrying pole entailed showing 
samples of merchandise to customers, taking orders, and 
then receiving payment after the merchandise is delivered 
from the site of production. If trust is lost at a single point 
along these series of transactions, the trading could not 
continue over the long term. Although times have changed, 
ITOCHU strives to achieve its targets every period through 
commitment-based management. It is based on the idea 
that building the trust of all stakeholders every period,  
including shareholders, is essential to gaining trust in 
ITOCHU’s medium- to long-term vision and the manage-
ment based on it. This is a common thread that extends 
back to the merchants in their heyday. 
Usami: The merchants of Ohmi had the expression “trading 
is like the drooling saliva of a cow.” This expression means 
that continuing to trade over several generations is better 
than making a fortune for only one generation. Lists ranking 
of the merchants of Ohmi still exist today, and the highest-
ranked merchants are the well-known families that managed 
to trade over the most generations. Even if a fortune created 
a prosperous merchant family for one generation, it was not 
recognized if they could not continue business. Regardless 
of changes in trading methods, merchandise handled, and 
the social fabric, the merchant families that passed down a 
