Calculation Formulas for (2) Performance-Linked Bonuses and (4) Performance-Linked Stock Remuneration
Total Amount Paid to All Directors
Total amount paid to all Directors = (A + B + C) x Sum of position points 
for all the eligible Directors ÷ 55
  A =  (Of consolidated net profit for FYE 2021, the portion up to ¥200.0 
billion) x 0.35%
  B =  (Of consolidated net profit for FYE 2021, the portion exceeding 
¥200.0 billion and up to ¥300.0 billion) x 0.525%
  C =  (Of consolidated net profit for FYE 2021, the portion exceeding 
¥300.0 billion) x 0.525% (of which, 0.175% as stock remuneration)
Amount Paid to an Individual Director
Amount paid to an individual Director = Total amount paid to all Directors 
x Position points ÷ Sum of position points for all the eligible Directors
Amount paid to an individual Director is determined by dividing total amount 
paid to all Directors based on points assigned by position shown below;
Chairman President
Executive Vice 
President 
(Resident in 
Japan)
Executive Vice 
President 
(Resident 
outside Japan)
Senior 
Managing 
Executive 
Officers
Managing 
Executive 
Officers
10
7.5
Of the amount paid to an individual Director, the portion corresponding to 
A and B is paid entirely in cash. In regard to the portion corresponding to 
C, 0.175% is paid as stock remuneration and the balance is paid in cash. 
Furthermore, 80% of the amount paid in cash is linked to the plan 
achievement rate of the consolidated net profit of the assigned division / 
department.*
In regard to stock remuneration during the term of office, annual points 
are awarded (1 point = 1 share), and at the time of retirement stock remu-
neration is paid from the trust in correspondence with accumulated 
The total amount paid shall be the sum of A, B, and C, which shall be 
adjusted with due regard to the increase / decrease in the number of 
eligible Directors, the change in position, and other factors. (Remuneration 
limits exist on bonuses and stock remuneration.)
points. Plans call for all of the stocks paid from the trust to be acquired 
on the stock market, and accordingly there will be no dilution of shares.
  A Director that is a resident outside Japan is not eligible for perfor-
mance-linked stock remuneration. As a substitute, such Director is eligible 
for the Equivalent Amount of Individual stock remuneration. The Equivalent 
Amount of Individual stock remuneration is calculated in accordance with 
the above formula (except the points assigned to such Director being 15) 
as if such Director were subject to performance-linked stock remuneration, 
and the amount will be added or subtracted according to a certain perfor-
mance achievement rate. The remuneration will be determined and paid 
separately from the performance-linked bonus based on formula above.
*  Formula for 80% of the Amount Paid in cash to an Individual Director: 
(Total base amount paid to all Directors as above x Position Point / Sum of Position 
points for all the eligible Directors) x 80% x the Rate (defined below) determined 
based on plan achievement rate of the consolidated net profit of the assigned 
division/department
-  The Rate: 100% + (plan achievement rate of the consolidated net profit of the 
assigned division / department –100%) x 2 (if negative, it will be 0%)
-  The plan achievement rate shall be 100% for the eligible Director for whom no 
plan achievement rate is measurable.
Calculation Formula for (3) Share Price-Linked Bonuses
Amount Paid to an Individual Director*1 (Aggregate amount after the revision to Share price-linked bonuses (FYE 2020 and FYE 2021))
= ((Simple average of daily closing price in FYE 2021) – (Simple average of daily closing price in FYE 2019))
× 1,300,000 × (Total position points*2 of FYE 2020 and FYE 2021) / (108.8 points × 2 (years)) × Relative Stock Price Growth Rate*3
*1  Share price-linked bonus amounts are determined and paid when the Director retires or when, in the case of taking on the position of Executive Officer after retirement of the 
Director, the Executive Officer retires.
*2  The position points assigned to each Director are the same as those applied for calculating (2) performance-linked bonuses.
*3  Relative Stock Price Growth Rate = (simple average of daily closing price in FYE 2021 / simple average of daily closing price in FYE 2019) /  
(simple average of daily TOPIX in FYE 2021 / simple average of TOPIX in FYE 2019)
Eyeing Further Improvement in Effectiveness of Corporate Governance
One year has passed since I was appointed as an Outside Director of ITOCHU. On multiple 
occasions, I felt that the Company’s corporate governance system was functioning 
effectively, and not just on the surface. First of all, at the meetings of the Board of Directors, 
various briefings and venues for exchanging opinions are managed to encourage lively and 
meaningful deliberations against a backdrop of frank and open internal discussions. 
Regarding important matters for discussion, the honest opinions of the management team 
are presented to the Outside Directors, and management listens attentively to the frank 
opinions of the Outside Directors, resulting in constructive dialogues. As Outside Directors 
not directly involved in business operations to give helpful opinions, we must gain a deep 
understanding of the diverse operations of a trading company. At ITOCHU, Outside 
Directors are given opportunities to attend preliminary briefings prior to each meeting of the 
Board of Directors, tour business sites inside and outside Japan, and participate in other 
briefings, enabling us to receive precise explanations that are on point.
  As an Outside Director, I intend to fulfill my check and supervisory functions from the 
standpoint of creating an even more sound management structure while directly engaging 
with the management of ITOCHU, the Company which can leverage its advantages in rapid 
decision-making without being bound to preconceived ideas, and its ability to adapt to 
major changes in the business environment.
Makiko Nakamori
Outside Director
Ms. Nakamori possesses a high level of 
expertise on finance and accounting as a 
certified public accountant and a wealth 
of experience as a corporate manager. 
She was appointed as an Outside Director 
of ITOCHU in June 2019. She has helped 
advance corporate governance at 
ITOCHU while serving as a member 
of the Governance and Remuneration 
Committee in FYE 2020. She has often 
provided helpful advice based on her 
specialized knowledge and unique expe-
rience in the fields of internal control, 
compliance, and next-generation 
businesses.
79
