Management Messages
CEO Message
tirelessly focus on business from the “customer’s 
perspective.” 
  The pandemic presents a similar obligation. People 
across Japan are striving to avoid risks, and yet we have 
customers navigating hazards to fulfill their duty to deliver 
daily essentials to people. Many of our partners in the 
ITOCHU Group are working hard on the front lines in retail 
and other areas. I have even heard stories of partners who 
have practiced smiling while wearing a mask in front of the 
mirror to ensure that customers will be able to tell they are 
smiling. We compete by providing finely tuned services. 
I did not feel that we could live up to our “vision” as a 
merchant if only ITOCHU employees were working from 
home. To be clear, the “workstyle reforms” we are carrying 
out are not simply for the “pursuit of efficiency.”
  We do, however, fully reward our employees’ best 
efforts. The aforementioned flower display provides an 
example. The thought behind this was that flowers can in-
stantly brighten people’s day, providing inspiration without 
any words. We also prepared various provisions and 
provided every employee with special benefits so they 
could get a quick start when the state of emergency was 
lifted. Temporary staff, dispatched personnel, and employ-
ees of subsidiaries that complement functions of ITOCHU 
received the benefits as well. We also provided a modest 
bonus with a message to security guards and cleaners.
  Supported by many people, ITOCHU is, I believe, a  
merchant with the ability to perceive various viewpoints and 
create shared value for all sides. This was precisely the busi-
ness ideal our founder pursued more than 160 years ago.
Our Unwavering Ideal—“Sampo-yoshi”
I was approached by a person rather advanced in years at 
a meeting I attended last year. He thanked me because the 
ITOCHU shares he purchased have increased in value eight-
fold while dividends have risen significantly. As a manager, 
A red carpet and cherry blossoms in full bloom welcome new hires.
12
this was music to my ears and, simultaneously, a moment 
that heightened my awareness of the importance of fulfill-
ing my fiduciary responsibilities related to share price and 
shareholder returns.
  Amid recent concerns of rapid economic deterioration, 
some people are saying companies should prioritize finan-
cial soundness, employment, and social contribution while 
scaling down shareholder returns. However, I intend to 
continue focusing on steadily raising dividends every year 
regardless of the situation. 
  We have numerous priorities to pursue. We could focus 
on specific stakeholders, economic or social value, or 
short-term results or steppingstones for medium- to long-
term growth. The words of our founder, Chubei Itoh I, 
provide insight. The modern interpretation of “Sampo-
yoshi” (good for the seller, good for the buyer, and good for 
society) is not to choose “a single expedient” based on the 
situation, but rather to unflaggingly pursue “all the priorities.”  
 Page 26 Dialogue: “Sampo-yoshi” and ITOCHU)
( 
  Since ITOCHU’s founding in 1858, the spirit of “Sampo-
yoshi” has steadily underpinned the Company. On the other 
hand, each time the head of the Company changed, the 
overarching goal that encompasses “Sampo-yoshi” has 
been expressed using different words, making it gradually 
harder to precisely understand what we are aiming for and 
how to achieve it. Therefore, in April 2020, we went back to 
basics, making the Group corporate mission the simplest 
and clearest expression: “Sampo-yoshi.” At the same time, 
we reestablished “I am One with Infinite Missions” as our 
corporate Guideline of Conduct to realize “Sampo-yoshi.” 
  We give to society “what is required to the right person 
and in the right manner.” We do this by, for example, deliv-
ering safe and secure products from Japan to consumers 
in China, or by helping improve the lives of Indonesia’s 
citizens through geothermal power. “Enriching lives” through 
business in this way is how we provide social value based 
on “Sampo-yoshi.” In doing so, we earn profit in propor tion 
to the value we add. This mindset aligns with the Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) and the concept of Creating 
Shared Value (CSV). I hope you can see how properly 
 executing a profitable plan which leverages our strengths, 
like the storage battery business we are currently engaging 
in, is one of our “Infinite Missions.” ( 
and Systems Supporting Sustainable Growth)
 Page 62 Initiatives 
Merchants Are Diligent
I am a bit of a “worrier.” I have talked before about how 
cautious I am. I inevitably imagine the worst-case scenario, 
act to avoid it, and take one step forward only after reflect-
ing on the history and actions leading up to that point and 
again ruminating on the situation. I am now reflecting on 
the history of ITOCHU.
  After World War II, ITOCHU dove headfirst into expand-
ing into non-textile businesses with the aim of diversifying 
