Driving Force for Sustainable Value Creation
The Story of Merchants
Steady Steps under “Brand-new Deal” Strategies
FYE 2016 
Steppingstones toward China and other parts of Asia 
 No.1 general trading company in consolidated net profit
FYE 2015
Strengthening earning power in the non-resource sector 
 No.1 in the non-resource sector
FYE 2012
Harnessing individual capabilities 
 No.1 in the consumer sector
In addition, we adopted A&P Strategy and concentrated 
management resources on areas of strength, centering 
on food, clothing, and housing. He then passed on the 
management baton to unleash our strengths in the non- 
resource sector.  
  Taking over the management reins, President Eizo 
Kobayashi emphasized the pursuit of efficiency, strength-
ening “defense.” At the same time, the Company made 
proactive efforts to build the foundation for “offense” 
through accumulating profit by taking advantage of a 
resource boom. The role of President Okafuji (the current 
Chairman & CEO), appointed in 2010, was to dramatically 
develop the path the two prior presidents had outlined, 
maximizing the true value of our strengths as a merchant. 
The Company then proceeded to achieve each of its 
targets under “Brand-new Deal” strategies from FYE 2012. 
Three Steps to Unleashing  
the True Value of Our Strengths 
“Brand-new Deal 2012” (FYE 2012–2013) established 
the strengthening of front-line capabilities and “earn, 
cut, prevent” as the fundamental of the merchant ethos, 
marking a shift from our previous predilection toward 
“defense.” We launched a number of internal reforms to 
thoroughly unleash the potential of individual capabilities. 
We reduced internal meetings and materials, strengthened 
front-line  capabilities, and introduced a Morning-Focused 
Working System. Enhancing measures such as these led 
us to become an industry leader in labor productivity.  
  Next, under “Brand-new Deal 2014” (FYE 2014–2015) 
we set about reaping the rewards of large-scale invest-
ments we had made and increasing profitability in existing 
businesses. Furthermore, by revising investment criteria, 
we made nearly 80% of our total investments in the non-
resource sector and strengthened our earning power in 
this area. Through consistent implementation of the “earn, 
cut, prevent” principles, our business portfolio dispersed 
over a wide range of regions and business fields, and we 
have established stable cash generating power, as about 
90% of the Group companies are reporting profit.
  As the third step, under “Brand-new Deal 2017” (FYE 
2016–2018), in addition to ensuring profit growth each 
fiscal year, we conducted preparations with a longer-term 
view. Following our investment in CP Group, we invested 
approximately ¥600.0 billion—the largest amount to date—
in CITIC. With this move, we laid a major strategic founda-
tion for business in China and other parts of Asia, the 
world’s largest consumer market. 
In FYE 2012, we achieved our objective of becoming 
No. 1 in the consumer sector. In FYE 2015, we became 
No. 1 in the non-resource sector. And in FYE 2016, we 
became the No. 1 general trading company in consoli-
dated net profit, as the higher-ranked general trading com-
panies were affected significantly by the fall in resource 
prices while we were able to demonstrate the true value 
of our earnings base—being highly resilient to economic 
fluctuations due to our diversified business portfolio. 
Furthermore, in FYE 2019 we reached the major milestone 
of exceeding ¥500.0 billion in consolidated net profit for the 
first time. We have steadily stepped up our businesses by 
building on our existing strengths. This could be interpreted 
as us having charted a major change of course toward 
 “offensive” management, but in fact that is not the case. 
Rather, as we moved forward we weighed the risks very 
carefully, keeping in mind the harsh lessons learned in the 
late 1990s. As the next step in the following medium-term 
management plan, “Brand-new Deal 2020,” we advanced 
the shift from a product-oriented to a market-oriented per-
spective, in order to upgrade the physical businesses we 
have honed to date. As a result, in FYE 2020 we achieved 
the strongest financial results ever including consolidated 
net profit, achieving the targets of “Brand-new Deal 2020” 
one year ahead of schedule.  
In FYE 2021, we expect global economic confusion to 
become more pronounced on various fronts due to the 
COVID-19 pandemic which we cannot predict its contain-
ment. Remaining true to the “Sampo-yoshi ” spirit, despite 
the adverse operating conditions we will continue to lay 
the steppingstones for our next step forward. 
25
