Sustainable Value Creation through Capital Accumulation
The ITOCHU Group conducts its business through both trade and business investment. In the course of its 
history over 160 years, we have steadily accumulated internal capital such as human capital and business 
know-how. 
  Meanwhile, we believe that trust and creditworthiness are extremely important for achieving enhancement of 
interaction between internal and external capital. By always remaining cautious of trust and creditworthiness in 
our management practice, we aim to realize increases in economic and social value, and to continuously expand 
our corporate value. 
Importance and Monitoring Indicators of Each Capital
Human and Organizational Capital
Internal Capital
Importance of Capital in Value Creation
Examples of KPIs / Monitoring Indicators
Human resources are the driving force behind the 
functioning of our business models. We increase “in-
dividual capabilities” and labor productivity through 
our human resource strategies. In addition, our “profit 
earning” business divisions have powerful backing 
from our administrative divisions, which have rapid 
decision-making systems and high-level expertise. 
• Labor productivity of employees
• Engagement Survey
•  Time and money spent on employee skill 
development
•  Number of employees with Chinese-language 
qualifications
• Hours of overtime work
• Paid leave acquisition rate
• Evaluation by students looking for work
Business Know-How
With eight Division Companies operating businesses 
in diverse industries, ITOCHU has accumulated ex-
tensive business know-how. This is a vital intangible 
asset for creating new businesses and expanding into 
new regions. 
• Number of new businesses formed
•  Number of years of business with existing 
customers
Business Portfolio
Under pressure to respond to a rapidly changing 
management environment and diversification of 
consumer needs, the entire ITOCHU Group will 
leverage its comprehensive strength in a wide 
range of business domains to transform its existing 
business models and enable expansion of its func-
tional domains, expanding the potential for sustain-
able profit growth. 
• Ratio of Group companies reporting profits
• Management efficiency indicators
Trust and Creditworthiness (Sampo-yoshi)
Financial Capital 
Page 40 CFO Interview
Client and Partner Assets
External Capital
Importance of Capital in Value Creation
Examples of KPIs / Monitoring Indicators
We maintain win–win relationships with our clients 
and partners, which include a large number of leading 
companies. This is vital to our ability to rapidly expand 
into new domains and constantly capture and expand 
trade. It is our abundant client and partner assets that 
enable us to realize sustainable earnings growth. 
• Profits from initiatives with good partners
• Number of clients and partners
•  Expenses reduced and decrease in allowance for 
bad debts
Natural Resources
Through its business in the non-resource and 
resource sectors, we meet social demand for stable 
procurement and supply of natural resources, while 
capturing new business opportunities in responding 
to social issues outlined in the SDGs. 
• Ratio of renewable energy
• Level of energy consumption
• Level of waste emissions
• Amount of paper consumption
• Amount of water usage and emissions
Relationships with Society
We practice constructive communication with our 
stakeholders, ascertaining their expectations and 
demands of the Company and resolving them. 
Through this effort we promote stable business  
activities in Japan and overseas and realize further  
increases in corporate value.
•  Number of engagements with stakeholders
•  Number of companies participating in sustainability 
surveys
•  Number of ESG- and compliance-related internal 
training session participants
•  External evaluation of initiatives and additions to 
indexes
•  Shareholder returns (dividend payout ratio and 
share buybacks) and EPS
•  Evaluation by ESG evaluation institutions
•  Number of compliance violation incidents
38
