Q.4
Are there any changes in workstyles and human resource strategies?
To date, we have positioned human resource strategy as 
one of our important management strategies. Beginning 
with our introduction of a “Morning-Focused Working 
System” in FYE 2014, we have been making various efforts 
to improve employee health and create a rewarding work-
place environment in order to increase labor productivity.
In an environment affected by COVID-19, employee 
awareness has changed substantially with respect to 
 workstyle reforms. The convenience of teleworking has 
improved, and online services have been further utilized. In 
addition, the development of a working environment that 
makes it easier to strike a better balance between work 
and home life has been accelerated, especially for employ-
ees with childcare or nursing care. 
  COVID-19 has highlighted some of the advantages of 
working from home. We also need to pay careful attention 
to eliciting front-line opinions about some of the more 
subtle disadvantages. After conducting a multilateral 
analysis that takes into account the current personnel and 
performance structures as well as duly considering ways 
to improve disadvantages, we will strive to increase labor 
 productivity even more. 
Q.5
What has been ITOCHU’s response to stakeholders with regard to COVID-19’s impact? 
We set up a COVID-19 countermeasures headquarters in 
January 2020, when COVID-19 infections were beginning to 
increase. Prioritizing worker safety, we expanded the practice 
of working from home and temporarily evacuated employees 
from overseas locations. We continued with expanded PCR 
testing, erecting shields in office areas, and otherwise putting 
in place systems to ensure employees could work safely. 
  As a general trading company whose strength lies in 
the consumer sector, we have been working to fulfill our 
on-site customer service responsibilities, including at 
Group companies. At the same time, in order to contribute 
to the stability of society, we sustain important operations 
by maintaining supply chains in various fields while avoiding 
risks even when the infection spreads. 
  To prevent the spread of infection among shareholders, 
we significantly scaled back our general meeting of 
shareholders. Only ITOCHU executives were physically 
present. Along with the convocation notice, we prepared 
and sent shareholders a booklet containing Q&As on 
 high-interest topics. In this way, we sought to foster a 
 substantial understanding of conditions at the Company, 
even if shareholders were unable to be physically present. 
  As in the past, when announcing our FYE 2021 
Management Plan, in addition to the quantitative targets 
 including consolidated business forecasts, we disclosed 
qualitative targets focusing on important points in order for 
stakeholders to cultivate an understanding of our manage-
ment policies and priority measures in an environment 
affected by COVID-19. We resolve to continue engaging 
proactively in dialogue to ensure we are evaluated positively 
in the markets and work to further enhance corporate value.
Comments from an Outside Director on Our COVID-19 Countermeasures
ITOCHU shared information about policies to address COVID-19 and measures to 
prevent infection with Outside Directors in a timely manner. As an Outside Director 
of ITOCHU, I tried to provide more practical opinions and advice based on the 
 experience and knowledge I have gained through my involvement in healthcare 
over many years. 
ITOCHU established an internal COVID-19 countermeasures headquarters in 
January 2020, just as the number of infections was beginning to increase. Headed 
by the CAO, the headquarters have been focusing on thoroughly implementing 
the infection protection measures necessary to sustain business operations as 
well as on such areas as reinforcing the testing system. From my perspective as 
a medical sector professional, these measures appear prompt and appropriate. 
  Leading corporate management in an environment affected by COVID-19 
requires striking a balance between curtailing infection risk and minimizing the 
impact on business activities. I look forward to continuing in my role of working in 
tandem with the internal management team to develop and maintain an environ-
ment in which executives and employees can concentrate on their work with 
peace of mind.
Masatoshi Kawana
Outside Director 
Mr. Kawana served as Vice President of Tokyo Women’s 
Medical University Hospital, in addition to other positions, 
where he gained a high level of experience in hospital 
management and advanced knowledge of medical care. 
  He assumed a position as member of the Board of 
Directors at ITOCHU in June 2018. He contributed to the 
further development of governance at ITOCHU as a 
member of the Governance and Remuneration 
Committee in FYE 2020. He used his expertise to 
provide many useful proposals and suggestions in the 
fields of health management and medical care-related 
business.
57
