Business Results for FYE 2020
General Review of “Brand-new Deal 2020”
Of the initial targets set under “Brand-new Deal 2020,” our medium-term management plan, we achieved all the quantitative 
targets, including the profit plan, ahead of time for the two-year period spanning FYE 2019 and FYE 2020. We also pro-
gressed steadily toward our qualitative targets, resulting in the completion of the plan. 
Commitments under “Brand-new Deal 2020”
Achievements
Entrenched consolidated net profit at 
the ¥500.0 billion level
Positive Core Free Cash Flows after 
deducting shareholder returns
Progressive dividend policy  
(Record-high dividend levels each year)
Actively promoted share buybacks
Sustainable EPS growth
Medium- to Long-Term  
Shareholder Returns Policy
Commitments under “Brand-new Deal 2020”
Reinvention of Business
Smart & Health Management
Sustainability & ESG
Recorded consolidated net profit of more than ¥500.0 billion for the 
second consecutive year. Further reinforced an earnings base that is 
resilient to economic fluctuations.
Achieved substantial positive Core Free Cash Flows after deducting 
shareholder returns of more than ¥420.0 billion over a two-year period. 
Secured ample surplus funds for future growth investments.
¥83 per share for FYE 2019 / ¥85 per share for FYE 2020.
Steadily promoted record-high dividend levels each year.
Implemented share buybacks of ¥130.0 billion over a two-year period.
Responded flexibly in accordance with our Medium- to Long-Term 
Shareholder Returns Policy.
Set new target for “EPS growth.”
Leveraged share buybacks and steadily improve EPS growth.
Achievements
Drove forward the conversion of FamilyMart into a subsidiary, estab-
lished The 8th Company, and created the Power & Environmental 
Solution Division for next-generation power business. Going forward, 
we will enter into a new phase in which we work to ensure profitability 
in each Division Company.
Exhaustively improved operational efficiency by leveraging IT and 
reducing paper use. Promoted unique health management measures, 
including Support Measures for Balancing Cancer Care and Work.
Revised the corporate mission of the ITOCHU Group  
(“Sampo-yoshi”) and formulated and unveiled a corporate  governance 
policy for listed subsidiaries.
Summary of Financial Results for FYE 2020
Consolidated net profit was ¥501.3 billion, which exceeded the full-year forecast committed at the start of 
the fiscal year and achieved ¥500.0 billion level for the second consecutive year [4th consecutive year].
Profit in the non-resource sector was ¥378.3 billion [3rd consecutive year].
Core Profit (consolidated net profit after deducting extraordinary gains and losses) increased by  approximately 
¥13.5 billion compared with the previous fiscal year, to approximately ¥485.5 billion [5th consecutive year].
Profits / losses of Group companies was ¥445.2 billion [4th consecutive year].  
Ratio of Group companies reporting profits was 88.6%, maintained high level.
Core Operating Cash Flows was a net cash-inflow of ¥602.0 billion [4th consecutive year].
Consolidated net profit per share (EPS) was ¥335.58 [4th consecutive year].
Note: Figures in brackets, [ ], indicate the number of years renewing the highest record in a row. 
52
