ESG Risk Evaluation in Business Investment
ITOCHU carries out comprehensive ESG risk evaluations when making business investment decisions by using 
an ESG checklist and making on-site visits after executing investments. These are part of our efforts to ascertain 
ESG risks for business investments and take preventative actions. Furthermore, the ESG risk evaluation process 
is continuously reviewed and improved within the Company’s sustainability management system framework 
based on ISO 14001 as a means of reducing risks related to business investments. 
ESG Risk Evaluation of New Business Investment Projects
When making new business investments, we use the ESG 
checklist for investments to conduct a thorough due dili-
gence check of the status of the business investee’s sus-
tainability promotion system and CSR policy, as well as 
the risks of significant adverse effects on the environment, 
violations of laws and ordinances, and complaints from 
stakeholders. This checklist consists of 33 check items, 
 including the elements of the seven core subjects* in 
ISO 26000. With this checklist, the division making the 
application (sales department) is required to refer to 
reviews based on risk analysis from relevant administrative 
organizations, and to request additional due diligence from 
external specialist organizations on areas of concern that 
require an expert opinion, such as soil pollution surveys for 
building construction. The project is then only undertaken 
upon confirming that there are no problems in those results.
*  Organizational governance, human rights, labor practices, the environment, fair oper-
ating practices, consumer issues, and community involvement and development
Group Company Fact-Finding Investigations
We have continued to conduct on-site visits and surveys 
in Group companies since 2001 to prevent environmental 
pollution. We visited and surveyed two Group companies 
in FYE 2020, working with external experts upon consid-
eration for the environmental and social risks of each 
company. (We completed investigations into a total of 
285 offices as of the end of March 2020.)
In these investigations, we conduct wide-ranging inspec-
tions such as the factory and warehouse facilities, the situ-
ation of drainage to rivers, compliance with environmental 
laws and regulations, consideration for labor safety and 
human rights, and communication with the local commu-
nity in addition to holding a Q&A session with manage-
ment. We also identify problems and present preventative 
measures, and check to see whether the situation has 
been corrected afterwards.
In January 2020, we visited and surveyed Dole 
Philippines Inc., which manufactures canned pineapple. 
Based on the insights of an external expert with detailed 
knowledge of local laws and regulations, we carefully 
checked the status of soil pollution, waste, and compliance 
with laws and regulations to confirm that these are being 
managed properly. 
  We also confirmed that the company is actively engaged 
in on-site biomass power generation and making 
donations to local schools, among other activities. 
Survey at  
Dole Philippines Inc. 
Increasing Labor Productivity by Building a 
Companywide Integrated Data Infrastructure
The Company has radically overhauled its mission-critical systems looking ahead 
to the full-scale arrival of the era of Digital Transformation. As part of this, we 
have built a Companywide integrated data infrastructure that will improve the 
speed and flexibility of business data analysis. In addition to accounting data, the 
system also aggregates all data concerning sales transactions of the eight 
Division Companies,  logistics data, and external data such as stock prices. This 
enables the provision of reports and business data in accordance with front-line 
needs. In conjunction with this, we have established the Business Intelligence Competency Center (BICC) as a dedicated organization 
for providing assistance with data analysis and use within the IT Planning Division under the Chief Digital & Information Officer. It will 
support flexible use of data to enable all sales  departments to “evolve businesses through technological innovation,” which has been 
identified as a material issue for the Company. The IT Planning Division will support increased efficiency and productivity of management 
using technology, while supporting thorough implementation of the merchant principles of “earn, cut, prevent.”
69
