FYE 2020 Review (Achievement of Short-Term Targets)
  Steadily expanded construction materials business in North America by acquiring companies involved in fence manufac-
ture and wholesale, as well as the manufacture of wooden fences
  Commenced joint management with DAIKEN CORPORATION (“DAIKEN”) of companies manufacturing veneers and lami-
nated veneer lumber in North America
  Expanded our share of the UK tire market and increased profitability by focusing on leveraging data to enhance customer 
satisfaction
  Restructured our logistics business in China, reinforcing the management system and earnings base
  In line with the real estate asset replacement model, developed residential assets and logistics warehouses, and 
expanded REITs AUM
Steppingstones to Medium- to Long-Term Value Creation
  Enhancing profitability by promoting M&As in the North American construction materials business
  Further honing our tire, construction material, real estate, and logistics businesses by applying new technologies 
  Expand the handling of environmentally friendly products that use sustainable forestry resources
  Strengthening the real estate asset replacement model for logistics warehouses
  Continuing to move ahead in the North American real estate business through strategic alliances and joint investments 
with leading U.S. real estate companies
Initiatives Supporting Sustainable Growth
  Strengthening the afforestation business in Brazil with a partner, and enhancing the pulp business in Finland, where a 
stable long-term supply of raw timber is possible
  Promoting the effective use of sustainable byproducts (slag) as a cement alternative and creating a sustainable and stable 
distribution 
  Creating a natural rubber traceability system that identifies the source of raw material to eradicate illegal logging 
  Revising Group companies’ backbone systems (ERP) to increase analytical and operational efficiency (“cut”) and reduce 
security risk (“prevent”)
 Please refer to “Significant Risks to Be Managed on a Consolidated Basis” in the Risk Management section on Page 47.
Specific Example of Steppingstones to Medium- to Long-Term Value Creation
Strategies for Boosting Profitability and Enhancing Corporate Value at North American Group Companies 
Involved in Construction Materials
ITOCHU has restructured its construction materials business 
in North America, where the steady increase in population and 
solid economic growth are expected among the major devel-
oped countries. In addition to MASTER-HALCO, Inc. (manufac-
ture and wholesale of fences) and Alta Forest Products LLC 
(manufacture and sale of wooden fences), in FYE 2020 ITOCHU 
acquired Jamieson Manufacturing Co. (manufacture and whole-
sale of fences) and Reichert Shake & Fencing, Inc. (manufacture 
of wooden fences). We also sold part of CIPA LUMBER CO. 
LTD. (manufacture and sale of veneer) and Pacific Woodtech 
Corporation (manufacture and sale of laminated veneer lumber) 
to DAIKEN and commenced joint operation. Following these 
 acquisitions and realignments, we have dispatched more than 
20 highly experienced personnel to these Group companies to 
improve their management and augment their corporate value. 
In addition to our own expertise cultivated over many years, we 
will incorporate DAIKEN’s manufacturing know-how, working 
together to further enhance profitability and corporate value. 
Pacific Woodtech Corporation
Please also see the Sustainability Action Plan on our website for initiatives underpinning sustainable growth.
 https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/csr/itochu/activity/actionplan/ 
99
