COVID-19’s Impact on the Company and Status of Initiatives
We explain COVID-19’s impact on our operating performance and management policies, as well as status 
of initiatives.
Q.1
How has COVID-19 affected ITOCHU’s consolidated business performance, management strategies, 
and business model?
Our initial plan of consolidated business performance for 
FYE 2021 called for consolidated net profit of ¥400.0 
billion. This incorporates a direct downward impact from 
COVID-19 of roughly 10%, excluding such impacts as 
falling resource prices. In addition, we set a higher-than-
usual loss buffer of ¥50.0 billion, an increase of ¥20.0 
billion from previous years. Our plan thus gave ample 
 consideration to preparedness for uncertainty in the 
business environment. 
  Even before the worldwide spread of COVID-19, we 
have been responding to rapid structural changes and 
digitalization in client industries, and have steadily 
promoted initiatives to evolve and transform our existing 
business models. It is said that COVID-19 would rapidly 
accelerate changes in purchasing methods and prefer-
ences, as well as the digital shift. That said, the basic 
business flow—procuring and delivering what customers 
want—remains unchanged. Going forward, we will 
continue to take the social needs of individual countries 
and regions into account as we pursue our business 
from a customer viewpoint through a market-oriented 
perspective. 
Q.2
Has COVID-19 prompted a change in ESG awareness?
Even if some business activities are suspended due 
to COVID-19, rather than responding with emergency 
actions, we believe companies should maintain responsible 
ESG management from a medium- to long-term 
perspective.
In addition to environment-related measures to date, 
such as addressing climate change and marine plastic 
 pollution, the spread of COVID-19 provides an important 
 opportunity to renew society-related initiatives, including 
the supply chain and human rights. In April 2020, we 
declared a new Group corporate mission of 
“Sampo-yoshi,” which is the philosophy we have upheld 
since the time of our founding. While ensuring that we 
maintain and improve profitability, we will continue working 
hard to resolve social issues by, for instance, providing a 
wide range of products and services and creating new 
businesses. To this end, we recognize the importance of 
remaining sensitive to changing social values and continu-
ously undertaking proactive and consistent initiatives that 
contribute to ESG.
Q.3
What are some examples of initiatives ITOCHU is taking to sustain its business in an environment 
affected by COVID-19?
As the ITOCHU Group’s strength lies in the consumer 
sector, its businesses support the social infrastructure that 
forms the foundation of everyday lives in many ways. 
Accordingly, we are undertaking a host of initiatives to 
sustain corporate activities even in an environment affected 
by COVID-19. 
  For example, our subsidiary, HOKEN NO MADOGUCHI 
GROUP INC., which is one of Japan’s largest insurance 
agencies with walk-in stores, has promptly established 
a nationwide system to provide insurance consultations 
online, leveraging the ITOCHU Group resources, in order 
to respond to customer concerns about conducting insur-
ance consultations face-to-face. This system went on line 
in July 2020. Another example can be found at an affiliated 
company, WingArc1st Inc., which provides software and 
services that help leverage corporate data. Amid the rapid 
shift to working from home, this company energetically 
deployed a web-based invoice distribution service both 
within and outside the ITOCHU Group. This move 
 addressed the issue of preparation and shipping of invoice, 
which had presented a barrier to working from home. 
Through this service, WingArc1st Inc. helps to prevent 
 infection risk at companies adopting the system and aided 
the shift in workstyles in an environment affected by 
COVID-19. 
  Through these improvements on the front lines of 
business and the steadily accumulated effect of small initia-
tives, the ITOCHU Group demonstrates its highly distinctive 
characteristics in business contributing to customers and 
society at large. 
56
