Driving Force for Sustainable Value Creation 
The Story of Merchants
The Merchant’s Heritage of Being  
Proactive, Agile, and Rational 
Chubei Itoh I was an extremely progressive business 
leader. The “store rule” clearly demonstrates his efforts to 
overcome old-fashioned practices with state-of-the-art 
management practices. These included a system of 
meetings, Western bookkeeping, the hiring of university 
graduates, and the use of shipping insurance.
  Rather than sticking stubbornly to precedent or being 
swept away by the tides of the times, he followed his own 
senses as a merchant and perceived the essence. His 
management philosophy emphasized proactive implemen-
tation of whatever was determined to be rational. This 
“proactive, agile, and rational” philosophy has been passed 
forward over the years. One example was the Company’s 
concentrated effort to strengthen business in the non- 
resource sector quickly around 2013, when it anticipated 
that the “commodities super cycle” was coming to a close. 
Other practices introduced on the basis of “whether it 
leads rationally to sustainable increases in corporate value” 
included human resource strategies such as health man-
agement, the establishment of nomination and remunera-
tion systems in the corporate governance system, and 
management’s decision not to formulate long-term  
management plans based on the “idealistic” theory.
Merchants Upholding the Unwavering Ideal 
—“Sampo-yoshi” 
The merchants of Ohmi followed a business philosophy of 
“Sampo-yoshi” (good for the seller, good for the buyer, and 
good for society). This philosophy is said to be rooted in 
Chubei Itoh I’s personal motto, “Trade is a compassionate 
business. It is noble when it accords with the spirit of 
Buddha by profiting those who sell and those who buy 
and supplying the needs of the society.” Doing business 
outside their own lands, to some extent the merchants of 
Ohmi were always considered as outsiders. To be permit-
ted to engage in economic activity outside their own lands, 
the merchants always strove to be humble and contribute 
to local communities, and they naturally cultivated a spirit 
of putting the customer first. Chubei Itoh I’s “store rule” 
called for net profit to be evenly split three ways—to the 
head family, to the accumulation of stores, and to employ-
ees. The fundamental thought of “Sampo-yoshi” is relevant 
to today’s idea of Creating Shared Value (CSV), recognizing 
a company as a “vessel of society” that aligns its interests 
with those of stakeholders and shares the profits it gener-
ates. “Sampo-yoshi” is an unwavering ideal that underpins 
the Company’s daily business.
ITOCHU’s client industries are having to face unprece-
dented change, prompted by two factors. First, the world 
is undergoing vigorous digital transformation that is being 
described as the Fourth Industrial Revolution. Second, we 
must live with COVID-19. Surmounting the challenges of 
this business environment will require the  understanding of 
“what sets ITOCHU apart,” emphasizing values for which 
all can relate, and further strengthening bonds of solidarity 
throughout the Group. In line with these efforts, in April 
2020 the Company revised the corporate mission to 
“Sampo-yoshi” which has sustained the ITOCHU Group’s 
development for more than 160 years, and positioned the 
corporate message of “I am One with Infinite Missions” as 
its Guideline of Conduct.  
  By encouraging each individual employee to consider 
their own conduct as they go about their business, 
ITOCHU aims to simultaneously enhance sustainable 
 corporate value and resolve social issues. 
Sources of Strengths Deriving from  
the Way of the Merchant
Consistent corporate behavior based on the unwavering 
ideal has underpinned ITOCHU’s strengths over the years. 
During Japan’s period of rapid economic growth, the 
Company kept pace with the changes in the country’s 
industry structure, expanding into the non-textile sectors 
and diversifying its business. However, ITOCHU lacked the 
heavy industry connections, unlike the general trading com-
panies associated with the former zaibatsu industrial groups. 
As a result, we concentrated our strengths on the non-re-
source sector,  centering on areas of expertise such as food, 
clothing, and housing. Different from the merchants of Osaka 
and Edo, which operated out of free-standing stores, the 
merchants of Ohmi had to peddle their wares on foot. This 
cultivated a pioneering spirit and the independence of devel-
oping trade on their own, or “individual capabilities.” Even 
after ITOCHU  diversified its business, it continued to adhere 
to these “ individual capabilities,” carrying forward especially 
in the food, clothing, and housing sectors, where the number 
of customers is large and individual transactions are small. 
In 1972, we became the first major general trading company 
recognized as a friendly trading company by Chinese 
23
