Our Business Model, as Seen through Business Development
Expanding Our Multifaceted Businesses and 
Tirelessly Upgrading
We are expanding our multifaceted businesses through a chain reaction by leveraging functional areas of 
strength. At the same time, we are combining existing businesses, shifting to a market-oriented perspective, and 
investing in new fields. Through such efforts, we continue to upgrade our business model and pursue a new 
vision of what a trading company can achieve. 
Advancing into Areas Where We Can Leverage  
Our Distinctive Strengths
Establishing a Market Position and  
Creating Multifaceted, Linked Businesses
Investing in areas  
of strength
• Acquire trade opportunities
•  Consolidate / Pick up earnings 
of investees
Coordination
Promoting business 
management
Acquire new trade
Distinctive Strengths
Securing resources and raw 
 materials / linking purchasers 
with producers / providing 
added value that meets 
consumer needs / providing 
solutions
Advance into areas where 
we can leverage our 
 distinctive strengths
• Expand trade
•  Increase earnings 
of investees
Generating synergies 
among businesses
We narrow down possible areas to those in which we can generate 
synergies with existing businesses and control risk, and advance 
into new businesses and markets through trade and investment.
Thoroughly instill the “earn, 
cut, prevent” principles
Mergers
After advancing into a new area, we strive to acquire business 
know-how while setting our sights on the next step. At the same 
time, we leverage our management resources and create added 
value to increase investees’ corporate value and establish a market 
position. Thereafter, we continuously work to thoroughly instill the 
“earn, cut, prevent” principles, acquire new trade, generate synergies 
among businesses, and reorganize business, creating multifaceted, 
linked businesses.
Examples from the Convenience Store Business
Acquiring Customer Contact Points
ITOCHU acquired approximately 30% of the issued shares of FamilyMart in 1998, 
marking our first full-fledged foray into the retail field. In 2006, we converted the general 
food wholesaler NIPPON ACCESS, INC., into a consolidated subsidiary. These moves 
accelerated reforms in our business model highlighted by the introduction of the Strategic 
Integrated System (SIS) strategy—building a value chain spanning the securement of 
foodstuffs; midstream processing, manufacturing, and intermediate distribution; and 
downstream retail.
Strengthening the Intermediate Food Distribution Business 
through Reorganization
In October 2011, ITOCHU integrated its intermediate food distribution business, cen-
tering it on NIPPON ACCESS, INC. Through this reorganization, we built a system that 
can offer integrated handling of processed foods in all temperature ranges—ambient, 
frozen, and chilled—as well as the three main groups of fresh food products. This 
move also facilitated the provision of integrated distribution services. Now possessing 
top-class scale and functionality in the field of food distribution, we have created 
a structure providing our business partners with low-cost, high-quality logistics.
1998 Acquired 30% of issued shares
Until September 2011
2006 Acquired 60.4% of issued shares
Family Corporation 
Inc.
Logistics business
NIPPON ACCESS, 
INC.
General wholesale
Universal Food  
Co., Ltd.
Wholesale in food 
service and catering
ITOCHU Fresh 
Corporation Inc.
Fresh food wholesale
FamilyMart
Merger
October 2011
NIPPON ACCESS, 
INC.
Acquire trade opportunities
Conducted an absorption-type 
merger of Family Corporation Inc.
Merged with ITOCHU Fresh 
Corporation Inc.
Became 
consolidated 
subsidiary
NIPPON ACCESS, 
INC.
Comprehensive provision of 
general wholesale, logistics, 
fresh food wholesale, and 
wholesale in food service 
and catering
*  As of March 31, 2020, we own 50.2% of FamilyMart Co., Ltd., and 100% of 
NIPPON ACCESS, INC.
Universal Food  
Co., Ltd.
Wholesale in food service and catering
32
