order to refrain from unnecessary accumulation of goodwill, 
actively replacing low-efficiency or peaked-out assets, and 
ensuring sufficient shareholders’ equity as a risk buffer.
  On the other hand, to date, the number of outstanding 
investment projects that would be suitable candidates for 
a merger or acquisition has been limited, and acquisition 
prices have remained high. As the economy begins to 
change direction, however, there is a high probability that 
there will be an increase in opportunities to invest in com-
panies that are undervalued relative to their potential.
  When investing, we, of course, consider candidates in 
line with our stringent investment criteria by fully leveraging 
the advantages of having the CFO as the chair of the 
Investment Consultative Committee. We steadily conduct 
highly strategic investments that will reinforce the fields 
of strength that ITOCHU has long accumulated, and will 
underpin continued profit growth going forward.
Question 4
Please tell us about the measures aimed at 
further enhancing corporate value.
Answer 4
I believe it is important that we steadily achieve 
our announced targets and promote reliable 
dialogue.
While forecasts predict a precipitous drop in global 
economic growth for 2020 as it is currently difficult to 
discern a way out of the COVID-19 pandemic, it is regret-
table that the share price valuation of general trading com-
panies remains low.
  To further enhance ITOCHU’s corporate value, we will 
continue to steadily achieve the targets we announced, 
such as carrying out the aforementioned shareholder 
returns policy, maintaining a high ROE, and improving EPS 
over the medium to long term. Amid the COVID-19 
pandemic, which continues to defy forecasts for contain-
ment, I think it is of the utmost importance that we continue 
to “disclose information” to facilitate deeper understanding 
and better decision-making, especially for all our share-
holders and investors. As one of the leading general trading 
companies, we intend to continue fostering highly reliable 
dialogue through appropriate and timely disclosure.  
( 
Corporate Value)
 Page 48 The Positive Cycle of Dialogue and Enhancing 
In addition, speaking in ESG terms, due to the impact of 
COVID-19, greater attention is being paid not only to envi-
ronmental efforts but also to corporate actions toward 
society. Because ITOCHU is a “general trading company” 
that sets importance on trade, we will continue working hard 
to resolve social issues by, for instance, providing a wide 
Achieve High ROE While Balancing Three Factors
Shareholder Returns
Growth Investments
Control of Interest-
Bearing Debt
procurement, we have secured sufficient liquidity mainly 
through ample cash and deposits as well as commitment 
line agreements with financial institutions.
Question 3
Could you discuss ITOCHU’s investment policy 
as the economy teeters on the brink of 
recession?
Answer 3
Our policy is to minimize risks and carefully 
select investments that are certain to contribute 
to future earnings.
Amid concerns over geopolitical risks such as the U.S.–China 
trade friction and Brexit, and an emerging global economic 
recession due to COVID-19, we need to minimize risks 
surrounding growth investments and carefully select invest-
ments that are certain to contribute to future earnings.
  Since investing in CITIC in FYE 2016, we were able to 
strengthen our financial position by restraining investment 
and promoting asset replacement. This has generated sig-
nificant excess investment capacity. Going forward, we aim 
to achieve further profit growth by searching out invest-
ment opportunities. At the same time, to ensure “balance 
sheet control for maintaining  A ratings” as outlined under 
the FYE 2021 short-term management plan, we intend to 
pay full attention to “maintaining our financial discipline.” In 
other words, I think it is crucial that we achieve a good 
balance and consider the broader picture when investing, 
such as staying away from investments at their peak in 
42
