Steppingstones to Medium- to Long-Term Value Creation
We aim to increase our corporate value by taking a medium- to long-term perspective in fields 
where our Group companies have strengths. This includes developing multifaceted business fields 
centered on China and other parts of Asia as well as promoting initiatives to further new business 
opportunities and maximize synergies in our areas of strength, such as the consumer sector.
Building Synergies that will Become Growth Pillars  
over the Medium to Long Term
In January 2015, ITOCHU acquired 20% of the share 
various government policies. With the impact of 
of China’s largest state-owned conglomerate, CITIC, 
COVID-19 on top of an already uncertain manage-
in a 50–50 joint investment with CP Group in order to 
ment environment, it has become necessary to take 
expand our earnings base in China and other parts 
a more comprehensive approach to risk identification 
of Asia, our areas of strength. Since around 80% of 
and business discernment. We will combine the re-
CITIC’s earning power is in the financial sector, our 
sources of CITIC, including human networks and infor-
role as its partner is to contribute to expanding its 
mation, with our own strengths in the non-resource 
non-financial businesses. Meanwhile, CITIC is an un-
sector, especially the consumer sector, to build syner-
changing reliable partner for the ITOCHU Group in 
gies that will become earnings pillars from a medium- 
China, with its local market of approximately 1.4 billion 
to long-term perspective.
people and rapid business development supported by 
Creating New Business Models Utilizing Customer Contact Points
FamilyMart is the Group’s core business company with 
organizational structure based on the traditional  
customer contact points involving its network of  
product-oriented approach. In addition, by promoting 
approximately 16,500 physical stores in Japan and 
a series of digital strategies such as electronic 
around 15 million customer purchases a day. By 
payment, we will increase convenience and customer 
placing this business under The 8th Company, our 
appeal, which will strengthen the earning power of 
policy is to achieve further supply chain optimization 
existing stores even further. Amid increasing pressure 
and efficiency gains through a “market-oriented  
to revise the business model of the convenience store 
perspective,” by responding to market and consumer 
itself, we will take steps to further strengthen our 
needs, rather than fixating on the vertical  
existing business foundation. At the same time, we 
aim to build a new business model that creates new 
added value across the traditional boundary of goods 
or services through the fusion of physical and digital 
formats, and exploring future overseas expansion in 
more detail.
Top-Level Earning Power in the  
Non-Resource Sector among General 
Trading Companies
Top-Ranked Company in a Variety of 
Industries in China
• Trust company
• Securities company
• Alloy wheel manufacturer
Large Conglomerate with Businesses 
Extending throughout Asia, Centered 
on Thailand and China
•  One of the largest private companies in 
Thailand
•  Operating businesses in 21 countries, exporting 
products to more than 150 countries
•  First foreign-funded enterprise recognized by 
the Chinese government (1979)
•  One of the largest foreign corporate groups in 
China, with an established business foundation 
throughout the country
Creating an expansive 
multifaceted  
business field
in a market that covers
more than 2 billion people
58
ITOCHU Corporation
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
