Driving Force for Sustainable Value Creation
Kobayashi: On April 1, 2020, the ITOCHU Group declared 
“Sampo-yoshi” as its new corporate mission. On this 
occasion, ITOCHU consulted with Professor Hideki Usami, 
a leading researcher on the merchants of Ohmi. Professor 
Usami presents the view that the spirit of “Sampo-yoshi” 
can be found in the business practices of Chubei Itoh I, 
whose personal motto was “Trade is a compassionate 
business. It is noble when it accords with the spirit of 
Buddha by profiting those who sell and those who buy 
and supplying the needs of the society.” Would you mind 
explaining, once again, the meaning behind the words 
“Sampo-yoshi”? 
Usami: For starters, I must clarify that “Sampo-yoshi” is a 
neologism created by researchers studying the merchants 
of Ohmi, and that Chubei Itoh I did not come up with the 
phrase itself. In addition, “Sampo-yoshi” is well known 
across Japan for consisting of three sides, “urite-yoshi 
(meaning “good for the seller”), kaite-yoshi (meaning “good 
for the buyer”), seken-yoshi (meaning “good for society”).” 
The use of “for” (“ni” in Japanese) before “good” (“yoshi”) 
is correct Japanese, in my opinion. Therefore, the correct 
phrase should be “urite-ni-yoshi, kaite-ni-yoshi, seken-ni-
yoshi.” In the history of the merchants of Ohmi, the ex-
pression “Sampo-yoshi” began to appear after Professor 
Eiichiro Ogura of Shiga University used the term in 1988 to 
describe the trading philosophy of the merchants of Ohmi 
in his book Omi Shonin no keiei (Management Practices of 
the Merchants of Ohmi). Chubei Itoh I’s personal motto is 
an exemplification of this philosophy in a management 
mindset, which is “Trade is a compassionate business. It is 
noble when it accords with the spirit of Buddha by profiting 
those who sell and those who buy and supplying the 
needs of the society.”
Kobayashi: In modern Japanese society, “Sampo-yoshi ” 
has become a phrase that everyone has heard of before, 
but not many people are clearly aware of its origins. 
Usami: There are various opinions about the origins of 
“Sampo-yoshi.” One view is that it came from the Jihei 
Nakamura family motto, but I have not found evidence of 
the “urite-ni-yoshi, kaite-ni-yoshi, seken-ni-yoshi” expres-
sion. The first appearance of the expression can be traced 
to Chubei Itoh I. On their outward journeys, the merchants 
of Ohmi traveled up to other countries and sold merchan-
dise from Kyoto, Osaka and other parts of the Kinki region, 
in addition to those from Ohmi. On their return journeys, 
the merchants bought specialties in other countries and 
sold them in the Ohmi and Kinki region. This trade practice 
was called “saw trading,” and it gave rise for merchants to 
open stores for trading specialties from various regions 
between the merchants of other countries. These mer-
chants were outsiders (“yosomono”) in foreign lands, so 
they had to heed the trade practices rooted in each region. 
The trading style of these unique merchants of Ohmi per-
sisted over many long years, culminating in the “Sampo-
yoshi” spirit. Chubei Itoh I was the first person to put this 
trading philosophy into words. In Japan, I believe ITOCHU 
and Marubeni are the only companies that can claim 
“Sampo-yoshi” as their founding spirit because they can 
count Chubei Itoh I as their founder. 
Kobayashi: Thank you for that explanation. After the 
bubble economy collapsed in Japan, Japanese firms did 
not hesitate to embrace the concept of shareholder capi-
talism and related systems from Europe and the United 
States. In the past, it was well understood that a company 
belongs to shareholders and it should behave in ways to 
I think it will be important how 
“Sampo-yoshi” is perceived 
and practiced in modern 
business.
Hideki Usami
Professor Emeritus of Shiga University
Born in 1951 in Fukui Prefecture, Mr. Usami is a former director of Archival Museum 
for the Faculty of Economics at Shiga University. He is a famous researcher in the 
business and social activities of the merchants of Ohmi. He is also the author of 
Cherishing the Memory of Chubei Itoh I (Seibundo Publishing) and Ohmi Fuzokushi 
(Morisada Mankou) (Castigation, Iwanami Shoten).
27
