Photo courtesy of BHP 
Photo courtesy of CSN Mineração 
Photo courtesy of Emirates Global Aluminium 
FYE 2020 Review (Achievement of Short-Term Targets)
  Acquired a 25% interest in the Longview coking coal mine (owned by North Central Resources, LLC). Longview, which 
is currently under development, will contribute to our strategy of building a superior asset portfolio that will contribute to 
continuous future business growth
  Continued to steadily progress development of the South Flank iron ore mine, which will replace the existing Yandi iron 
ore mine which is approaching the end of its economic life 
  Established an aluminum value chain through aluminum ingot trading involving both Japan and non-Japan markets, as 
well as product trading in the automotive and IT sectors 
  Expanded trading activity in the fields of steelmaking raw materials, fuels for power generation, and steel products, 
 targeting both Japan and non-Japan markets, by leveraging solid relationships with excellent partners
  Entered into a capital alliance with Traxens SA of France to create “new value” by utilizing logistics big data
  Through ITOCHU Metals Corporation, established a joint venture in the U.S. with the Nippon Light Metal Group to 
produce and sell forged aluminum automotive parts 
  At Marubeni-Itochu Steel Inc., while executing the steady restructuring and optimization of the overall Group businesses, 
successfully expanded steel export sales to remote overseas locations, and the construction materials business in the U.S.
Steppingstones to Medium- to Long-Term Value Creation
  Establish an optimal asset portfolio through asset replacements and new acquisitions that contributes to next-generation industries 
 Create new, high-value-adding trading structures by leveraging strong relationships with excellent partners
  Further refine and improve the current business model through a wide range of upstream and downstream investments in 
each industry, and the adoption of cutting-edge technologies
Initiatives Supporting Sustainable Growth
  Keep complying with our coal-related business policy and continuously contribute to the development of technologies 
that will help reduce GHG emissions 
  Promote businesses (such as aluminum) that will facilitate the uptake of lighter-weight vehicles and Electric Vehicles (EV’s)
  Optimize the asset portfolio to support the stable supply of raw materials and fuels to meet social needs
  Comply with our Environmental, Health, and Safety (EHS) guidelines and continue employee education of the guidelines
  Contribute to the local communities where we do business through the provision of healthcare, education, donations, and 
assistance to the establishment of regional infrastructure, etc.
 Please refer to “Significant Risks to Be Managed on a Consolidated Basis” in the Risk Management section on Page 47.
Specific Example of Steppingstones to Medium- to Long-Term Value Creation
Investment in North Central Resources, LLC Which Owns the Longview Coking Coal Mine in the United States
ITOCHU has acquired a 25% interest in North Central 
Resources, LLC. This company is the sole owner of the 
Longview coking coal mine, which is under development in the 
U.S. state of West Virginia. ITOCHU has also decided to partici-
pate in a new company which will exclusively market the coking 
coal produced at the mine. 
  The Longview coking coal mine is currently being developed 
toward the commencement of production in 2022. The mine is 
expected to have an average annual production capacity of 4 
million tons of high-quality coking coal, and will be one of the 
largest coking coal mines in the United States. Amid firm growth 
in global steel production, demand for coking coal is expected to 
continue increasing. With the new development of the Longview 
mine and its involvement in the marketing joint venture company, 
ITOCHU will be contributing to a stable supply of high-quality met-
allurgical coal to global customers, particularly in Japan and Asia. 
Planned portal to the Longview coking coal mine
Please also see the Sustainability Action Plan on our website for initiatives supporting sustainable growth.
 https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/csr/itochu/activity/actionplan/
93
