Sustainability in the Value Chain
ITOCHU understands that on top of realizing the stable and sustainable procurement and supply of raw materi-
als, it must also respond appropriately to environmental and human rights risks in its increasingly wide-ranging 
and complex supply chains. Through dialogue with stakeholders, we will work to achieve even greater transpar-
ency across the entire supply chain, including suppliers and customers, and make efforts on risk management. 
Risks and Opportunities
Risks
Opportunities
•  Decrease in creditworthiness when safety and health issues 
occur for consumers and service users 
•  Increase in demand for food safety and security as well as health 
promotion
•  Building of a secure and stable product supply system through 
consideration for human rights and improvement of working 
environments in the supply chain
•  Acquisition of customer trust and creation of new businesses 
through stable supply of environmentally friendly resources 
and materials
Food Supply Chain in the COVID-19 Pandemic
Plant audit in China
Our supply chain is 
growing more wide-
ranging and complex 
as our business 
domains expand, 
making it more impor-
tant to manage risks 
in raw materials pro-
curement and in our 
supply chains related 
to human rights, working environment, and other aspects. 
For example, in the Food Company, we are promoting sus-
tainable purchasing activities over the long term, mainly in 
upstream businesses such as palm oil, marine products, 
dairy products, fresh meat, and coffee. These efforts 
include participation in international certification organiza-
tions and initiatives to increase the procurement ratio of 
certified products, and through initiatives to promote 
greater supply chain transparency utilizing blockchains. 
In addition, at food manufacturing plants, which are po-
sitioned in the midstream section of the supply chain, we 
have made use of our existing initiatives for increasing 
transparency across the entire supply chain even under the 
COVID-19 environment. For example, since January 2015, 
we have had a food safety management team in China, 
and have regularly dispatched Japanese experts to sites 
there. From a perspective of preventative management, 
we have conducted regular plant audits in accordance with 
international standards, and fostered communication with 
our business partners’ plants. In addition to reducing the 
risk of accidents and issues arising, these initiatives also 
helped us to get a timely grasp of the status of suppliers 
infection prevention management systems and operating 
status during the COVID-19 crisis, which enabled us to 
avoid any interruption in the supply chain. Furthermore, 
preliminary preparation of crisis response manuals through 
preliminary surveys regarding BCP measures also contrib-
utes to the stable supply of food. 
Initiatives in the Supply Chain Going Forward
As a general trading company that operates businesses 
globally, ITOCHU takes essential measures to fulfill its 
 responsibilities to reduce the risk of human rights violations 
in its supply chain and provide a stable supply of goods 
to support people’s lives. Specifically, we will reiterate the 
Sustainability Action Guidelines for Supply Chains* and 
continue to implement annual sustainability inspections at 
our suppliers in an effort to ascertain their true status. 
  Looking ahead, we plan to build processes for conduct-
ing more thorough human rights due diligence to identify 
and assess risks, and to remedy them. 
* The Sustainability Action Guidelines for Supply Chains can be found here:
 https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/csr/society/value_chain/policy/
68
