spirit of “Sampo-yoshi,” thrift and frugal, and a spirit of 
building trust through their family mottoes and store rules 
that spanned generations are the ones that continued long 
and small business small business based on trust of their 
family, successfully having stayed in business in their 
communities.
Kobayashi: The families that ran a successful trading 
business over the long term became the most distin-
guished families. I believe this aligns with the way modern 
corporations focus on sustainability as an assessment 
criteria. To summarize our conversation today, “Sampo-
yoshi,” as a phrase of the condensed spirit of the mer-
chants of Ohmi, can be viewed as a straightforward 
expression of the cutting-edge economic value systems 
in the world today. Now that ITOCHU has a new Group 
corporate mission with “Sampo-yoshi,” I believe ITOCHU 
has astutely aligned itself with modern social trends. At 
ITOCHU, managers in the past have all embodied the spirit 
of “Sampo-yoshi,” and this spirit has embedded itself in the 
hearts and minds of each and every employee. I am very 
proud that ITOCHU has taken a corporate stance that 
dovetails with the concept of an ideal corporation needed 
the world over. 
Usami: I think it will be important how “Sampo-yoshi ” 
is perceived and practiced in modern business. In this 
context, I believe ITOCHU needs to shed more light on the 
future it envisions. ITOCHU’s goal of becoming the top 
general trading company is a major motivation for employ-
ees. As this is achieved in the future, I believe employees 
will be even more motivated if management further clarifies 
its vision for ITOCHU as “a company working for the 
benefit of society.” In my opinion, each and every employee 
must have a sense of their own mission, and an idea of the 
better future that can be created from their own position, 
starting with the “I am One with Infinite Missions” Guideline 
of Conduct, amid a growing need to contribute to society 
and management focusing more on various stakeholders 
around the world, not just customers and suppliers. While 
adhering to the code of conduct in the spirit of “Sampo-
yoshi,” I hope that ITOCHU continues to put this spirit into 
practice while adjusting with the times. 
Kobayashi: In these hard times during the COVID-19 
pandemic, I felt strongly that our corporate mission should 
be a compass for all employees. Our “Sampo-yoshi” 
c orporate mission and “I am One with Infinite Missions” 
Guideline of Conduct have served as a psychological 
prop for our employees working on the front lines and 
our employees working from home during the COVID-19 
pandemic. As the ones who have inherited the spirit of 
“Sampo-yoshi,” we carry out the mission asked of each  
of us. This is a universal and easy-to-grasp concept.  
Our corporate mission and Guideline of Conduct empower 
our employees to think on their own and fulfill their own 
mission when protecting the Company, their families, and 
our customers. 
I believe the change in our corporate mission has 
allowed our employees to rethink the meaning of “Sampo-
yoshi” from a sustainability standpoint. I would like to thank 
Professor Usami once again for providing us with a spring-
board. Thank you for setting aside the time for this 
 discussion today. 
In these hard times during  
the COVID-19 pandemic,  
I felt strongly that our  
corporate mission should be  
a compass for all employees.
Fumihiko Kobayashi
Member of the Board, Senior Managing Executive Officer, CAO
29
