Management Messages
COO Message
We will work to maintain supply 
chains in each field by steadily 
carrying out operations and 
contribute to the stability of 
society as a whole.
Belgrade, is incinerated to produce electricity and supply 
heat. This is Serbia’s first large-scale Public Private 
Partnership (PPP) using project finance. The project is of 
paramount importance to the Serbian government, which 
aims to meet the European Union (EU)’s waste disposal 
standards and join the EU. ITOCHU also operates similar 
EfW facilities in the United Kingdom. Leveraging the 
business development and operational know-how we have 
cultivated to date, we will collaborate with strong partners 
in each region and business field to enhance the quality of 
our projects, thereby making steady progress. ( 
Viewing Environmental Issues as Business Opportunities)
 Page 59 
Aiming to Sustainably Enhance Corporate Value
To achieve major accomplishments with very few employ-
ees relative to other general trading companies on a non-
consolidated basis, ITOCHU has rolled out its distinctive 
advanced measures to enhance every employee’s produc-
tivity. Specifically, we have made operations more efficient 
by going paperless for meetings and applications and by 
utilizing IT including robotic process automation (RPA). We 
also promoted workstyle reforms through the “Morning- 
Focused Working System” and “Dress-down Days,” as well 
as health management through such measures as 
“Support Measures for Balancing Cancer Care and Work.”
  Going forward, by providing opportunities for advancement 
as a “strict but rewarding company,” ITOCHU will continue to 
ensure its employees can truly experience growth and feel the 
appeal of creation, through cultivating new customers and de-
veloping business models on their own.
In April 2020, to achieve further growth as we adapt to the 
rapid changes in the business environment in the industries 
that we are facing and to establish values that resonate with 
the strengths that set ITOCHU apart, we amended our cor-
porate mission to be “Sampo-yoshi,” our management phi-
losophy that has been in place since our founding, which 
also aligns with the principles behind the SDGs. We will 
continue to increase the unified strength of the entire Group 
as we aim to enhance our corporate value.
  Going forward, we will work reliably to support the 
diligent efforts of our subsidiaries, affiliates, and customers 
even amid the COVID-19 crisis. We will work to maintain 
supply chains in each field by steadily carrying out opera-
tions and contribute to the stability of society as a whole.
19
 Page 60 
  Regarding the upgrade of business models through 
venture investments or by using new technologies, we have 
completed the development of forward-looking foundations 
and the identification of key fields. From FYE 2021, we 
will enter a phase where we strive to expand business 
under the initiative of our Division Companies centering 
on mobility, power, and retail businesses. In particular, 
the power field combined the downstream fields of next-
generation power and storage batteries and established 
the new Power & Environmental Solution Division. Our 
brand of storage batteries equipped with AI functions has 
sold a cumulative total of roughly 30,000 units across 
Japan as of March 31, 2020, giving it the No. 1 share 
in Japan on a capacity basis. Our strengths in this area 
include our sales network and a business foundation that 
has evolved over more than a decade. We are steadily 
 expanding our business by taking full advantage of our 
 investees handling a variety of next-generation businesses, 
such as Sunnova Energy International Inc., 24M Technologies, 
Inc., and Shenzhen Pandpower Co., Ltd. ( 
Realizing Our  “Sampo-yoshi” Philosophy through the 
Largest Multifaceted Development in Japan)
  Amid the current crisis, which has been called the greatest 
since World War II, let us recall the words of President John 
F. Kennedy during the Cuban Missile Crisis: “In the Chinese 
language, the word ‘crisis’ is composed of two characters, 
one representing danger and the other, opportunity.” For 
example, COVID-19 is obviously spurring retailers to more 
quickly move online and fostering greater online engagement 
with customers of services. During this time, the ITOCHU 
Group has also launched new initiatives, such as HOKEN 
NO MADOGUCHI (an insurance agency with walk-in stores) 
starting online consultations. Even during the COVID-19 
crisis, we will continue to precisely sense changes in custom-
ers and industry structure, attune our senses to the seeds of 
change, and seize good opportunities.
  We are also monitoring the effect of COVID-19 overseas. 
By thoroughly managing risks and polishing our existing 
businesses, our “earn, cut, prevent” principles will serve as 
a base. Through the “earn” principle, we strive to expand 
our business through collaboration with powerful partners. 
For example, the Energy-from-Waste (EfW) project in Serbia 
started construction in FYE 2020, and it is a collaborative 
initiative with SUEZ S.A., a major French company for water 
and environmental utilities. Annually 340,000 tons of waste, 
equivalent to 66% of the waste emitted by the city of 
