Steppingstones to Medium- to Long-Term Value Creation
Realizing Our “Sampo-yoshi” Philosophy through 
the Largest Multifaceted Development in Japan
A market-oriented perspective and an ecosystem that shares value among all stakeholders underpin our storage 
battery business. By forming one of the largest AI-equipped storage battery networks in Japan, we aim for sus-
tainable value enhancement. 
Investment of Time Leading to  
Competitive Advantage
In addition to pursuing functionality, we worked to design an 
ecosystem optimized for homes and other partners in regard to 
spanning sales, distribution, construction, and call center 
In May 2010, we launched a joint pilot project in collaboration 
support. In designing the system, our distinctive business 
with a number of other companies and the city of Tsukuba, 
know-how and coordination skills we had cultivated through 
Ibaraki Prefecture, for a future low-carbon transportation system. 
our strength in the non-resource sector truly came to the fore. 
The multidisciplinary project combined solar power generation, 
  Amid growing awareness of the need to address power outages, 
Electric Vehicles (EVs), storage batteries, and ICT. Through this 
giving the rise in natural disasters, examples of Smart Star L 
project, we have placed the steppingstones for our storage 
 application are garnering attention. In addition, we have in place 
battery business of today. This investment of time has resulted 
a thorough market-oriented perspective, a robust sales network 
in the accumulation of expertise and partners who share our 
that incorporates Group companies, and an optimized ecosys-
medium- to long-term vision. These essential assets have helped 
tem. These efforts enabled us to create new opportunities. 
us build the competitive advantage we enjoy today. 
Taking on Challenges beyond the Bounds  
of a General Trading Company
Evolution by Combining Existing Businesses 
with New Technologies
In January 2018, we entered a capital and business alliance with 
In the 1990s, we entered the business of providing storage 
Moixa Energy Holdings Ltd. of the United Kingdom, a company 
battery manufacturing equipment, component materials, and 
that leverages AI technology in the power platform business. 
other items to manufacturers. Growth in this business relied on 
Under this agreement, we acquired exclusive marketing rights in 
battery manufacturers’ product sales. To achieve sustainable 
Japan to provide Moixa’s household service. The challenge we 
growth, we recognized the need to expand our downstream 
had taken up, to move into a position more akin to a manufac-
business and generate demand by ourselves. A solution came in 
turer, came to fruition in this agreement under a common vision 
the form of a household Energy Storage System (ESS). Instead 
of creating a platform that combines storage batteries with 
of merely selling products, we took up the challenge of moving 
Moixa’s AI technology. This AI technology analyzes and learns 
into a manufacturer position by forming a partnership with NF 
about weather forecasts and household electricity demand and 
Corporation, a company we had begun doing business with in the 
past and that excelled in electronic circuits and control systems. 
A Thorough Market-Oriented Perspective and 
Overall Ecosystem Design
Our first initiative was to reflect consumer demand in the after-
math of the Great East Japan Earthquake. We responded with 
200V power sources that could provide emergency power for 
entire homes. Looking ahead to post-2019 demand once 
Japan’s feed-in tariff (FIT) scheme for renewable energy ended, 
we secured a battery capacity of approximately 10kWh, the 
amount of power an average household uses in one day. It was 
in May 2017 that we launched the Smart Star L, offering func-
tionality competitors’ products did not offer at the time. 
60
ITOCHU Corporation
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
