FYE 2020 Review (Achievement of Short-Term Targets)
  Built a unique value chain starting with raw materials with our partner companies and expanded initiatives with the world’s 
leading retailers
  Launched the “RENU” project to expand the global development of sustainable materials
  Invested in a crowdfunding company and one operating a members only online boutique in a move to promote the 
creation of omni-channels in the brand business 
  Invested in a company that operates a B2B online order platform and one that possesses AI measurement technologies
  Strengthened our ability to propose total solutions including systems in the RFID business, and increased the number of 
customers both within and outside the textile sector
Steppingstones to Medium- to Long-Term Value Creation
  Promote trade in which we take the initiative by utilizing new technologies, developing environmentally friendly  
materials, etc.
  Strengthen e-commerce and grow new sales channels in our brand and retail-related businesses
  Supporting DESCENTE to expand its overseas business, increasing overseas earnings through enhanced initiatives with 
leading companies in China and other parts of Asia
Initiatives Supporting Sustainable Growth
  Add value and promote sustainable industrialization by creating IT infrastructures for production
  Using RFID, AI, and other technologies to enhance the efficiency of production, sales, and logistics operations
  Promote establishment of a safe and reliable product supply system
 Please refer to “Significant Risks to Be Managed on a Consolidated Basis” in the Risk Management section on Page 47.
Specific Example of Steppingstones to Medium- to Long-Term Value Creation
Launching the “RENU” Project to Address the Issue of Excessive Waste in Clothing
The Textile Company is promoting the creation of a value chain 
In March 2020, HUNTING WORLD, a U.S. luxury brand, 
starting with raw materials in which we take initiatives. To further 
launched a tote bag in its Borneo Charity Collection made from 
enhance this strategy, in FYE 2020 we launched the “RENU” 
“RENU,” recycled polyester materials sourced from old garments 
project. Through this project, we aim to address the issue of 
and textile. In this way, we are promoting collaboration among 
 excessive waste in the textile industry and realize a circular 
various brands and retailers in Japan and overseas.
economy. 
The “RENU” project for recycling old garments and textile into newly born products.
Please also see the Sustainability Action Plan on our website for initiatives supporting sustainable growth.
 https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/csr/itochu/activity/actionplan/
89
