FYE 2020 Review (Achievement of Short-Term Targets)
  Made HOKEN NO MADOGUCHI GROUP INC. a subsidiary, reinforcing the structure to promote business from a  
market-oriented perspective
  Made WingArc1st Inc. an affiliated company and, through a business alliance with AKQA in the U.S.  
(a leading digital consulting company), strengthened the foundation for advancing the DX business
  Turned Paidy Inc. into an affiliated company and built a system to jointly promote new services, such as moving forward 
with Paidy’s offline payments business
  Through a capital and business alliance with iLAC Inc., began to consider building a platform for whole genome analysis 
and commenced industrialization of genome-related businesses leveraging IT
  By making Gardia, Inc. a subsidiary, supported start-up companies’ new business efforts via a guarantee business for 
personal credit
  Through Money Communications Inc., entered the salary prepayment business to create a customer base centering on 
younger customers
Steppingstones to Medium- to Long-Term Value Creation
  Discovering and forming alliances with start-up companies, and creating and promoting next-generation businesses by 
 leveraging new technologies
  Fostering overseas development of business models cultivated in Japan in the mobile and ICT business sectors
  Building an earnings base in the innovative and highly convenient DX business based on a market-oriented perspective
  Expanding our overseas business foundation by leveraging new retail finance
  Creating a value chain of insurance business in the retail sector
Initiatives Supporting Sustainable Growth
  Offering high-value-added ICT solutions that realize a safe, secure, and highly convenient social infrastructure
  Providing platforms that use healthcare data to contribute to pharmaceutical and medical development, ultimately 
 enhancing the quality of people’s lives
  Building and expanding our retail business foundations by forging alliances with companies that have new technologies 
and customer bases
 Please refer to “Significant Risks to Be Managed on a Consolidated Basis” in the Risk Management section on Page 47.
Specific Example of Steppingstones to Medium- to Long-Term Value Creation
Conversion of HOKEN NO MADOGUCHI GROUP INC. into a Consolidated Subsidiary
HOKEN NO MADOGUCHI GROUP INC. (HOKEN NO 
MADOGUCHI), the leading walk-in insurance shop operator, sets 
the corporate mission of “being the best possible company for 
customers.” With 762 shops across Japan as of March 31, 
2020, it is the largest company in its industry. HOKEN NO 
MADOGUCHI is also a leader among insurance shops for 
service quality, underpinned by a proprietary system for training 
employees. By making HOKEN NO MADOGUCHI a subsidiary, 
ITOCHU supports the company to further enhance the quality of 
customer services in line with its management philosophy and to 
achieve business growth. At the same time, by working more 
closely with HOKEN NO MADOGUCHI, which has abundant 
customer contact points, ITOCHU aims to expand Group busi-
nesses with a market-oriented perspective.
From a HOKEN NO MADOGUCHI television commercial, as of June 2020
Please also see the Sustainability Action Plan on our website for initiatives supporting sustainable growth.
 https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/csr/itochu/activity/actionplan/
101
