Management Messages
transformation designed with the post-COVID-19 world in 
mind. For example, in the automotive industry, a major shift 
in consumer needs has been underway, “from ownership 
to usership.” But with people preoccupied with preventing 
the spread of COVID-19, consumers are now reevaluating 
“ownership” as their needs continue to evolve. In business, 
it is becoming indispensable to switch from a “product- 
oriented perspective” to a “market-oriented perspective,” 
seize customer contact points downstream, and provide 
the added value that consumers demand. ITOCHU has 
empowered The 8th Company with a budget and con-
sumer-related businesses, and now it is striving to create 
new businesses as a trailblazer for market-oriented 
perspective.
I have recently been hearing a lot about how “general 
trading companies’ growth strategies are rarely released.” 
Under the extenuating environment of COVID-19, some 
companies are downgrading their market assessments 
because they cannot tap their full potential. Put another 
way, in various industries, it is likely that companies will 
be clearly divided into winners and losers, and not strictly 
based on potential. In FYE 2021, our policy is to actively 
search for investment opportunities in companies with 
low valuations despite “room for growth,” leveraging our 
“comprehensive strength” as a general trading company 
as we continue to “upgrade our existing business.”
  As in-person customer interaction is restricted to prevent 
the spread of COVID-19, many of our employees are 
coming into work wearing jeans, which aligns with our 
long-standing initiative of “Dress-down Days.” In tandem 
with our “Morning-Focused Working System,” we will 
actively create proposals that will lead to future profit by 
enabling a work environment where ideas are freely  
 Page 70 Human Resource Strategy)
generated. ( 
“The Giants, Taiho, and Tamagoyaki”
This is a bit of an old story, but in the 1960s in Japan the 
phrase “the Giants, Taiho, and Tamagoyaki” became quite 
trendy, alluding to three things that were popular among 
the public, including children (respectively, the baseball 
team, the grand champion sumo wrestler, and the 
Japanese rolled omelet). The phrase was uniquely suited 
to the period because people were desperately seeking 
strong heroes. In contrast, when someone strong only 
keeps winning, a tendency often emerges in Japan to 
“favor the underdog,” and the hero’s popularity can slide.  
It is not well known, but the ratings for the Giants’ games 
were actually higher after they lost the championship than 
during their nine-year winning streak. That means, it was 
because the Giants’ position changed that the baseball 
league became animated and its popularity was revived.
I think we could say the same about competition 
between companies. Before FYE 2011, we were fourth in 
the industry in terms of consolidated net profit, and the 
three ranked above us were all general trading companies 
CEO Message
associated with the former zaibatsu industrial groups. Had 
we had gotten content with our position at the time, we 
probably would have lost our hunger for success and 
began a downward slide. ITOCHU, a non-zaibatsu associ-
ated company, turned the tables in this way, gradually 
rising in the ranks and upsetting the status quo. Then, I 
think this competition principle kicked in and the industry 
as a whole became much more active.
In June 2020, there were two events we should com-
memorate as part of ITOCHU’s history. For the first time in 
our history, both ITOCHU’s share price and market capital-
ization reached No. 1 for general trading companies on a 
Tokyo Stock Exchange closing-price basis. This feels a 
world away from where we were at the beginning of FYE 
2011, when our share price was only around a third of the 
top performer’s and our market capitalization was roughly 
¥3 trillion lower from the top.
Staying True to the Way of the Merchant
Last year, I went to a department store in Nihonbashi to 
buy a gift for a secretary who was transferring. As I was 
waiting for the gift to be wrapped, a woman suddenly 
came running up to me to shake my hand. I was taken 
aback and asked what was going on. She told me she had 
once applied for a job with ITOCHU. Although she regrets 
not getting it, she has remained a big fan all along. She 
was both delighted, and a bit jealous, to see what a great 
company ITOCHU was turning into.
  To date, I have managed the business with a focus 
on making ITOCHU a “great company” in the eyes of 
its shareholders, investors, business partners, financial 
 institutions, society, employees, and their families. We have 
achieved the top employer spot in many rankings of com-
panies for new graduates, garnering praise from students 
as well as those with longer relationships with the Company. 
For this, I am thankful. I believe we could say this is a result 
of keeping our promises to diverse stakeholders.
  Going forward, we will have to keep pushing ahead as 
the waves of this chaotic period approach. Fortunately, we 
are empowered by our “Sampo-yoshi” philosophy—our 
unwavering ideal aimed at sustainably enhancing 
ITOCHU’s corporate value. If each employee can avoid 
feeling overconfident, if we can all embrace our basic prin-
ciples of “earn, cut, prevent,” and if ITOCHU stays true to 
the “Sampo-yoshi” philosophy, then I am sure we will be 
able to overcome any turbulence. In FYE 2021, I want 
everyone to witness the unsurpassed reliability that our 
“commitment-based management” consistently achieves 
when we fully leverage the “true business power” of 
ITOCHU and the “combined power” of all Group employ-
ees working together.
15
