Addressing Climate Change
ITOCHU uses the scenario analysis* in the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) to analyze the impact of climate change on the Group’s businesses and their continuity, and 
to build business strategies based on the various opportunities and risks associated with climate change. We 
use the “under 2˚C” scenario mainly for businesses related to fossil fuels, which will be heavily impacted by tran-
sition risk arising from changes in policies, technologies, and markets following the transition to a low-carbon 
society. Meanwhile, we use the “around 4˚C” scenario for businesses in the consumer-related sector, which will 
be heavily impacted by physical risk arising from increases in average temperatures and changes in weather 
patterns. In this way, the TCFD scenarios allow a well-balanced analysis covering all of our asset portfolio. 
Taking the impacts from the above scenarios on each business into account, we will take appropriate steps to 
prepare for the future, and work to further enhance the continuity of our robust earnings base centered on our 
businesses in the consumer sector.
Risks and Opportunities
Risks
Opportunities
Transition risk
•  Reduction in demand for fossil fuels due to business restrictions on  
GHG emissions
Physical risk
•  Damage to business due to the increase in abnormal weather (e.g., 
droughts, flooding, typhoons, and hurricanes)
•  Increase in renewable energy and other business opportunities which will 
contribute to alleviating climate change
•  Retention and acquisition of customers by strengthening supply struc-
tures that can adapt to abnormal weather flexibly
Governance
Risk Management
 Page 65 Sustainability Promotion Framework
 Page 47 Risk Management
Metrics and Targets
Strategy
Metrics
Targets
Electricity consumption of 
Tokyo and Osaka 
headquarters, branches  
and offices in Japan,  
and other business facilities 
in Japan
Reduction of 30% compared 
with FYE 2011 levels  
in FYE 2021
Average annual reduction of 
at least 1%
FYE 2020 
Results
Reduction of 
44% compared 
with FYE 2011 
levels
Reduction of 
2.3% 
compared with 
FYE 2019 
levels
Renewable energy ratio
More than 20% by FYE 2031
12.5%
•  ITOCHU recognizes that the various risks and opportunities 
associated with climate change are an important perspective 
for business strategy. 
* Scenario Analysis
•  In considering scenarios analysis, we established the two sce-
narios, making reference to the International Energy Agency 
(IEA) and Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC): 
one where average temperature increase by the end of this 
century is “under 2˚C” and one where it is “around 4˚C.” 
•  In terms of transition and physical risks, we have identified 
 financially important businesses that could potentially be 
affected heavily by climate change.
Agreement with the TCFD Recommendations and Policy on Coal-Related Businesses
In May 2019, ITOCHU announced its endorsement of the TCFD 
recommendations after conducting a scenario analysis* based 
on the recommendations with regard to its power generation-re-
lated business with support from the Ministry of the Environment. 
At the same time, we also participated in the TCFD Consortium 
established by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, the 
Ministry of the Environment, and the Financial Services Agency, 
as a body for promoting discussion and deliberation among 
companies and financial institutions supporting the TCFD 
mission. Our policy going forward is to continue analyzing the 
impacts of climate change on our overall business in line with the 
TCFD recommendations and to provide timely, appropriate dis-
closure of relevant information. Moreover, we recognize that the 
coal-related business has a particularly significant impact on our 
business and stakeholders. We therefore conducted scenario 
analysis an urgent priority, and in February 2019 announced a 
policy of neither developing any new coal-fired power generation 
business nor acquiring any new thermal coal mining interest.
  We will conduct ongoing reviews and asset replacement with 
regard to our existing thermal coal mining business, while continu-
ing to respond to social demand from customers in Japan and 
overseas for a stable supply of energy. At the same time, we will 
maintain our participation in technological research that contrib-
utes to reducing GHG emissions. Our goal in doing so is to 
 contribute to the development of a sustainable society. 
*  Please see the website below for details on scenario analysis and business impact 
evaluation.  
Ministry of the Environment “Practical guide for Scenario Analysis in line with TCFD 
recommendations’:
 http://www.env.go.jp/en/headline/2396.html
66
