excess funds for growth investments going forward.
In terms of NET DER, we achieved further improvement, 
reducing it from 0.82 times in FYE 2019 to 0.75 times and 
setting a new best record.
  Finally, in terms of ROE, we hit 17.0%, beating our initial 
target of around 16%. By maintaining such a high level, we 
have held the No. 1 spot among general trading compa-
nies for six years running while striking a balance between 
“enhancing shareholder returns,” namely through higher 
dividends and share buybacks, and “enhancing sharehold-
ers’ equity.”
In addition to the methodical allocation of capital and en-
hancement of shareholder returns, we have once again 
earned praise from shareholders and investors regarding 
the stability and sustainability of our earnings in the non- 
resource sector, especially the consumer-related business, 
which is our strength. As a result, in FYE 2020 ITOCHU’s 
share price set 22 record highs.
Question 2
Are there any changes to the financial and 
capital strategies under the “FYE 2021 
Management Plan?”
Answer 2
There have been no fundamental changes.
While the goals of “Brand-new Deal 2020” were achieved 
ahead of schedule, as mentioned previously, we have 
decided not to make any major changes under the single-
year “FYE 2021 Management Plan” to the management 
policies in place. Neither have we made any changes to 
the “Policy to achieve high ROE while balancing three 
factors (shareholder returns, growth investments, and 
control of interest-bearing debt)” nor to the “Medium- to 
Long-Term Shareholder Returns Policy.”
  The latter policy clarifies the two aspects of our 
approach to shareholder returns in the medium to long 
term (a period of three to four years from the policy’s an-
nouncement) concerning dividend payout ratio and share 
buybacks. It also sets forth our policy that focuses on EPS 
in order to achieve a medium- to long-term enhancement 
in corporate value. Basically, by working toward achieving 
profit growth, we aim to sustainably improve EPS and will 
therefore continue to search out growth investment oppor-
tunities. Meanwhile, we need to more seriously consider 
the financial impact of the extraordinary circumstances 
caused by the COVID-19 pandemic.
  Regarding share buybacks, to live up to our commit-
ments under this shareholder returns policy, we will 
continue to carry out the remaining “share buybacks of 
up to 35 million shares or ¥70.0 billion” as currently an-
nounced. However, we intend to continue to strike just the 
right balance to ensure that corporate management does 
not overemphasize either growth investments or share-
holder returns. We seek to avoid becoming shackled to 
one side, which creates warped priorities.
  Furthermore, regarding the status of our funding 
Concept for Enhancing Corporate Value
Dividend
EPS
ROE
Number 
of shares
Gradually increase
Profit growth + Share buybacks
Maintain high efficiency
Establish the foundation of sustainable growth
Sustainable improvement from a medium- to long-term perspective
Medium- to Long-Term 
Shareholder Returns Policy
•  Gradually increase dividend payout ratio  
   Gradually increase dividend payout ratio, targeting up to approx. 30%. 
•  More actively execute share buybacks  
   Actively and continuously execute share buybacks, while considering the level of share price and cash flow availability. 
41
