CFO Interview
Question 1
Please provide a general review of the financial 
and capital strategies in “Brand-new Deal 
2020.”
Answer 1
We were able to achieve our promises a year 
ahead of schedule by steadily racking up 
 accomplishments, one by one.
Despite a bruising business environment caused by the 
 protracted U.S.–China trade friction and the emergence 
of COVID-19, FYE 2020 became ITOCHU’s most out-
standing year ever in quantitative terms. We achieved our 
target of solidifying our earnings base at ¥500.0 billion in 
consolidated net profit for the second consecutive years 
and further strengthened our financial position. As a result, 
we were able to successfully conclude our three-year 
 medium-term management plan, “Brand-new Deal 2020,” 
a year ahead of schedule. Moreover, we definitively kept 
our “four commitments” related to the financial and capital 
strategies that were set forth when “Brand-new Deal 2020” 
was released.
  First, in terms of “enhancing shareholder returns,” 
we promised to continue our progressive dividend policy 
during the period of “Brand-new Deal 2020.” We achieved 
steady increases in dividends per share each fiscal year, 
up to ¥83 in FYE 2019 and ¥85 in FYE 2020, setting new 
record highs for both years. Furthermore, based on the 
“Medium- to Long-Term Shareholder Returns Policy” 
 announced in October 2018, we showed our stance on 
maintaining high ROE management by continuously im-
proving EPS (Consolidated net profit per share) through 
measures including share buybacks. Based on this policy, 
we dynamically and flexibly repurchased a cumulative total 
of ¥130.0 billion in shares in FYE 2019 and 2020. As a 
result, we were able to achieve a high level of shareholder 
returns in FYE 2020 with a dividend payout ratio of 25% 
and a total shareholder return ratio of 38%.
  Next, in terms of “Core Operating Cash Flows,” we set 
record highs for the fourth consecutive year and exceeded 
¥600.0 billion for the first time, reaching ¥602.0 billion. 
With our improving earning power, we also steadily racked 
up accomplishments in terms of “cash-generating power.” 
Amid an uncertain business environment, we conducted 
steady asset replacements while realizing the previously 
noted shareholder returns, and were able to maintain 
positive Core Free Cash Flows after deducting shareholder 
returns of ¥123.0 billion. Together with the ¥300.0 billion 
we recorded in FYE 2019, we have accumulated a huge 
cash inflow of more than ¥420.0 billion over the cumulative 
two-year period. We were able to further strengthen our 
 financial position while acquiring a sufficient volume of 
40
Amid this year’s bruising 
business environment, we 
will balance our “offense” 
and “defense” to achieve a 
firm footing for even 
stronger growth.
Tsuyoshi Hachimura
Member of the Board,  
Senior Managing Executive Officer, CFO
