Management Messages
CEO Message
Steadfastly following the Way of the 
Merchant, ITOCHU will continue to 
brave turbulent seas by staying true 
to the “Sampo-yoshi” philosophy.
FYE 2020 was the most fruitful year of ITOCHU’s more than 160-year history. We successfully carried out forward-
looking measures and achieved record-high profits for the fourth consecutive year. We fully lived up to our com-
mitment of “turning words into accomplishments.” In FYE 2021, we will resolutely temper overconfidence. 
We will return to our fundamental “earn, cut, prevent” principles and establish a firm footing for the future.
Masahiro Okafuji
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
I would like to first offer my sincere condolences to those 
who have tragically lost friends and family from the 
COVID-19 pandemic raging across the globe. My heart also 
goes out to those who are currently battling the disease. 
Finally, to all the healthcare workers, government officials, 
and citizens out on the front lines, my words cannot begin 
to fully express my deep gratitude.
The Thought behind the Cherry Blossoms
On April 1, 2020, a pastel sea of pink blossoms brightened 
the ground-floor lobby of the Tokyo Headquarters, where 
100 branches from cherry trees were decoratively 
arranged. The specific type of tree is called keio-zakura in 
Japanese, and it is beloved for announcing the arrival of 
spring. With precious blossoms bursting forth, the boughs 
welcomed the young people who just joined ITOCHU in 
FYE 2021.
  Due to COVID-19, which is still ravaging the world, 
ITOCHU had to forgo traditional welcome ceremonies this 
year, as did many other companies. Across Japan, cherry 
blossom viewing parties were tightly restrained if held at all. 
Graduation ceremonies, which should be a memorable 
event of life, were canceled one after another. For our new 
hires, however, the first day is a once in a lifetime rite of 
passage, as they had prevailed in a fiercely competitive job 
market. We were determined to ensure an unforgettable 
first step for them as new members of ITOCHU. Surrounded 
by cherry trees in full bloom, President & COO Yoshihisa 
Suzuki and I stepped forward to welcome each of the 
new hires in person.
  Working from home began in response to the COVID-19 
pandemic, and ITOCHU made teleworking the standard 
from the beginning of April when a nationwide state of 
emergency was declared. Some people speculated this 
would become the new normal after the pandemic ended, 
and that workstyles might never go back to how they were 
before. Nevertheless, when the state of emergency was 
lifted, ITOCHU asked all employees to return to their work-
place as a general rule, except those with health concerns 
or extenuating family circumstances. Of course, we are 
taking every precaution to prevent the spread of the 
disease.
I am sure everyone has their own opinion, but this 
decision was based on my steadfast belief that “ITOCHU 
is a merchant.”
Our “Vision” as a Merchant
On June 1, the ground-floor lobby was made brilliant with a 
dazzling assortment of flowers. These flowers were fittingly 
symbolic of the economy beginning to reopen, following 
the complete lifting of the state of emergency. Bathed in 
sunlight, the merchants of ITOCHU came to work early 
that morning before business began and customers 
arrived, and the flowers welcomed them.
  After the Great East Japan Earthquake in March 2011, 
in the ensuing disruption when it seemed like our custom-
ers might be in trouble, I witnessed our employees using 
the flextime system to come into the office at the rather late 
hour of 10 a.m. This provided the impetus for the 
“Morning-Focused Working System.” The ITOCHU Group 
has strengths in the non-resource sector, which centers 
on consumer-related businesses. In this field, we must 
10
