Business Investment
Fundamental Approach
Along with strategic business alliances, business invest-
ment is an important means of creating new businesses. 
To actively promote strategic investments in areas of 
strength in a timely manner, we choose the optimal struc-
ture from a wide range of methods, such as establishing 
a wholly owned subsidiary, implementing joint investment 
with partners, and participating in management through 
M&As or converting to a consolidated subsidiary. In princi-
ple, we hold investments continuously. After making each 
investment, we work to maximize the investee’s corporate 
value and to expand trading profit and dividends received 
by fully utilizing our Groupwide capabilities. Given such 
considerations as larger-scale investments in recent years, 
we are rigorously screening the appropriateness of the 
business plan and acquisition price. For existing invest-
ments, to increase investment earnings and to exit quickly 
from low-efficiency assets, we are further strengthening 
monitoring procedures, centered on instituting more 
rigorous exit conditions and thoroughly implementing 
periodic investment review.
Decision-Making Process for New Investments
We have established a multilayered decision-making process that achieves quick decision-making by giving a certain level of 
discretion to the Division Companies while striving to pursue investment return and curb investment risk.
HMC (Headquarters Management Committee)
Projects that exceed the Division Company President’s  
authority must be approved by the HMC.
Investment Consultative Committee*
If the project needs further consideration and screening in 
terms of profitability and strategy, the project is discussed at 
the Investment Consultative Committee prior to the HMC.
Division Companies
Division Company Presidents
Decision
Division Company Management Committee (DMC)
Deliberation
…Opinion based on risk analysis
Administrative organizations
Applicants (responsible departments)
Related administrative organizations express their opinions 
from various specialized perspectives regarding the applica-
tion made by the applicants. Following careful discussion at 
the DMC, the Division Company President will make a final 
decision.
*  Investment Consultative Committee: The CFO serves as the chair. Core members 
include the CAO, General Manager of the Corporate Planning & Administration 
Division, General Manager of the Legal Division, General Manager of the General 
Accounting Control Division, General Manager of the Finance Division, and General 
Manager of the Global Risk Management Division. Meetings are also attended by 
one full-time Audit & Supervisory Board Member.
44
