Management Messages
COO Message
COVID-19 struck. This example illustrates how we practice 
the lessons learned from our past of not becoming 
overconfident.
  At the beginning of 2020, the WHO raised the alarm in 
January about the spread of COVID-19 in Wuhan, and, in 
March, it declared a pandemic, as the COVID-19 shock 
raced around the world. While the 2007 global financial 
crisis involved a collapse of the financial system, this shock 
was set off by the global spread of a virus with no vaccine. 
It will take time to develop treatments and vaccines, and 
even when the pandemic ends, it is inconceivable that 
the world will immediately go back to how it was before 
COVID-19. With plummeting oil prices, eroding consumer 
confidence, and sharp declines in automotive and other 
basic industries, FYE 2020 has shaped up to be the year the 
tide turned on the general trading industry. While ITOCHU’s 
business portfolio showed stability as it encompasses a 
diverse range of operations mainly in the consumer sector, 
other general trading companies with their assets more 
heavily concentrated in the resource sector and the basic 
industry sector faced a harsh environment. We also saw 
the emergence of huge differences in results across the 
general trading industry. ( 
on the Company and Status of Initiatives)
 Page 56 COVID-19’s Impact 
FYE 2021:  Continue Commitment-Based 
Management
With the impact of COVID-19 growing every day, we held 
a Special Headquarters Management Committee meeting 
on March 31, 2020 to discuss FYE 2021. In a normal year, 
the entire management team would assemble with execu-
tive officers stationed overseas returning to Japan. However, 
considering the risk of infection, this year’s meeting was 
limited in duration and participants to include only Directors 
and the President of each Division Company.
  General trading companies are sensitive to economic 
fluctuations and the COVID-19 shock has thrown all of 
us into an era of extreme difficulty. Three of the difficulties 
include: 1) a crisis that intertwines healthcare with an 
economy that defies forecasting; 2) economic decline that is 
a cyclical contraction ensuing 11 years of economic growth 
following the global financial crisis so things are not expected 
to simply return to normal; and 3) falling crude oil prices 
that create worries as oil money dries up and give rise to 
growing credit instability for shale companies. Recognizing 
this era of extreme difficulty, our discussions centered on 
how ITOCHU can succeed in FYE 2021 and whether we 
should ultimately release an FYE 2021 plan or go without. 
Ultimately, we confirmed that we would shift our strategic 
focus on combatting these risks and would remain faithful 
to ITOCHU’s commitment-based management.
In an effort to proactively disclose as much as we can to 
the market after accounting for currently conceivable risks, 
we decided to announce our FYE 2021 management plan 
calling for consolidated net profit of ¥400.0 billion and, in a 
18
continuation of our progressive dividend policy, dividends 
of ¥88. In addition, we need to prepare for upheaval in the 
business environment and a global economic recession that 
will likely last for several years. Recognizing that we have 
entered a new business phase, we positioned this year as 
one in which we should establish a firm foothold, and decided 
to formulate a single-year management plan that is not con-
tained in the medium-term management plan to address risks.
  With the future unforeseeable, we should not think of FYE 
2021 as a continuation of the economic expansion to date. 
Instead, we are designating this as a year in which we need 
to hold our position for a while. In order to put this into 
practice and fortify our position, the Company needs, I think, 
to thoroughly assume the lean management that Chairman 
& CEO Masahiro Okafuji refers to as stricter and smaller. 
In every field, we have vowed to return to our “earn, cut, 
prevent” principles. In particular, the “cut” and “prevent” 
 principles will be key to achieving our plan. The entire Group 
carefully monitors contract and sales trends, logistics, credit 
status, and other variables to take forward-looking measures, 
such as insurance coverage, shorter payment terms, and 
rapid recovery of accounts receivable. We avoid losing 
income by “preventing” the incurrence of loses. By “cutting,” 
we will not simply reduce business expenses; we will con-
stantly create more effective ways to utilize capital. We will 
remain steadfast in these efforts. In FYE 2021, we will 
again strive to meet everyone’s  expectations and realize 
consolidated net profit of ¥400.0 billion and the announced 
 Page 54 FYE 2021 Management Plan)
dividend of ¥88. ( 
Looking Beyond the Current Difficulties
Amid this extremely uncertain business environment, we 
will assess new investments more carefully than before, 
quickly exit from existing investments if necessary, and 
thoroughly manage risks, such as by refraining from invest-
ments without any strategic value. At the same time, we will 
steadily execute growth strategies that look beyond the 
COVID-19 crisis. In particular, we intend to carefully select 
and implement prime investment projects, especially in the 
consumer sector where ITOCHU has strengths.
  Launched in July 2019, The 8th Company has partnered 
with FamilyMart, whose nationwide network of stores gets 
approximately 15 million customers per day, in an effort to 
roll out financial services, marketing, and advertisements 
that utilize purchasing data and customer engagement. 
We are also working to upgrade the data utilization system 
with FamilyMart and NIPPON ACCESS, INC. to optimize the 
value chain, including ordering, inventory and distribution, 
and to  construct a system that can test new initiatives in 
actual FamilyMart stores. In addition, we are building a data 
management platform (DMP) to manage and utilize customer 
data across the entire ITOCHU Group with the aim of creating 
new businesses, including a digital ad business, data man-
agement business, data analysis business, and financial 
services business. ( 
 Page 102 The 8th Company)
