Steppingstones to Medium- to Long-Term Value Creation
then optimally controls the charging and discharging of storage 
batteries, providing a favorable environment for attracting new 
batteries, allowing electricity storage systems to operate 
partners. In 2018, we invested in 24M Technologies, Inc., a 
efficiently. 
U.S. company that engages in the research and development 
  As of March 2020, sales of Smart Star L exceeded 30,000 
of semisolid lithium-ion batteries, and entered a capital and 
units. As a result, we have built the largest multifaceted develop-
business alliance with Sunnova Energy International Inc., a 
ment in Japan through an ESS comprising distributed power 
 U.S.-based residential solar and storage service provider. In 
sources that can be controlled remotely.
addition, in October 2019 we acquired an equity stake in 
The Possibilities Expanded from a  
Japan-Leading Multifaceted Development
Shenzhen Pandpower Co., Ltd., a Chinese company that reuses 
and recycles vehicle batteries. In March 2020, we invested in 
Canadian company Eguana Technologies Inc., which sells pro-
prietary ESS. We expect to combine our expertise in the storage 
In addition to trade spanning upstream to downstream, we sought 
battery business we have cultivated in Japan and our work with 
to expand our scope of operation by adding value to products 
strong overseas partners into new businesses overseas. We also 
and services at customer contact points. To that end, we have 
plan to apply this know-how to enter the VPP business in Japan. 
built a foundation for the largest AI-equipped storage battery 
network in Japan to move into the Virtual Power Plant (VPP) 
business. In March 2019, we invested in VPP Japan, Inc., which 
operates in the solar power business under a third-party owner-
Aiming for Sustainable Business Growth by 
Leveraging “What Sets ITOCHU Apart”
ship model. In June 2020, we also invested in TRENDE Inc., a 
We have adopted a fully market-oriented perspective and 
TEPCO Group company that provides electricity retail services. 
continue to improve our finely tuned ecosystem. Although other 
Envisioning after 2021 when the business environment will be 
companies are likely to enter this market, due to its strong 
ready, we are exploring a host of possibilities beyond the sale of 
growth potential, we will seek to differentiate ourselves by lever-
storage batteries and excess electricity, such as the formation of 
aging the distinctive strengths that have driven our growth to 
economic zones that link regional populations with electricity. 
date and continue to anticipate new challenges. At the same 
  Based on a successful model we have developed in Japan, 
time, we will contribute to various partners, households, and 
we aim to take it overseas. A shift toward distributed energy is 
help build a better society, realizing sustainable growth as we 
taking place around the world. We have the advantage of oper-
embody the “Sampo-yoshi” philosophy.
ating an ESS comprised of nearly 20,000 AI-equipped storage 
Promoting a Business Model that Combines New Technologies and Existing Businesses
Initiatives from the 1990s  
supplying battery materials, 
etc.
Ingredients for component  
materials / component materials /  
manufacturing equipment
Household storage batteries
In 2013, entered the  
business of storage batteries  
for general households
Sale of AI-equipped  
ESS
Optimal control of  
ESS
Joint development and  
production of ESS
Product development  
with partners
Simultaneously deploy in 
Japan and overseas
Battery 
manufacturers
Changing relationships with 
business partners
Renewable 
energy  
sources
Storage in large  
storage batteries
Provision of renewable energy
Reuse of 
vehicle batteries
Storage 
batteries
Management 
of EV 
charging
Optimal  
control of 
demand, power 
generation,  
and storage
24 OPEN
Industrial 
storage 
batteries
Aggregation of ESS
ESS management
Provision of IoT platforms
Investment in AI 
technology
ITOCHU Corporation
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
61
