ITOCHU AT A GLANCE
Corporate Performance and Strategy: 
Shifting from a Defensive to Offensive Footing
Since the launch of “Management Restructuring for
Success in the 21st Century” in fiscal year 2000,
ITOCHU has been reforming its profit structure and
improving its financial position through the implemen-
tation of a series of management reforms including
the A&P strategy.* As of fiscal year 2005, the results
of these reforms have been a record high net income
of ¥77.8 billion; and on the balance sheet side, a
reduction in net interest-bearing debts by half, a near
doubling of shareholders’ equity, and a net DER
(debt-to-equity ratio) that has improved to 3.7 times
from 12.0 times in fiscal year 2000. ITOCHU has also
eliminated major causes for concern over future
earnings and the Company is now prepared to shift
to a full-fledged offensive footing.
Under the new mid-term management plan,
Frontier-2006, ITOCHU will seek to increase its total
assets and net interest-bearing debts. At the same
time, the Company will further enhance its financial
position by reducing net DER to below 3.0 times and
striving to become a corporate group that steadily
and consistently generates net income above ¥100
billion.
*A&P strategy:
A strategy for enhancing profitability by intensively allocating
management resources to areas that are Attractive to cus-
tomers and where ITOCHU is Powerful. ITOCHU has
advanced the A&P strategy through the implementation of two
mid-term management plans: A&P-2002 (fiscal year 2002 –
fiscal year 2003) and Super A&P-2004 (fiscal year 2004 – fis-
cal year 2005).
Segments through which ITOCHU can 
Offensively Demonstrate Unique Competence
ITOCHU will demonstrate its unique competence to
fulfill its Frontier-2006 plan in the below three areas.
In addition, ITOCHU will enhance its prioritized efforts
under a system that looks beyond the individual
Division Company to develop business across the
entire Group.
• Consumer-Related sector: Taking advantage of
ITOCHU’s expertise gained through its original
business activities in the textile industry and subse-
quent rapid advance into the food retail sector,
ITOCHU is in a strong position to better understand
consumer needs. In addition, ITOCHU is well pre-
pared to comprehensively develop its business,
which spans from downstream to upstream fields
(comprehensive vertical strengths). 
• Natural Resource Development sector: ITOCHU
ranks the highest among general trading compa-
nies in asset efficiency in the natural resource
development sector.
• North America and Asia, including China:
ITOCHU has taken the industry lead in penetrating
the Chinese market and it has developed a network
of contacts, distribution routes, and collaborative
relationships with major local Chinese companies.
Also, in the U.S., ITOCHU has expertise in develop-
ing local businesses.
Past and Future Division Company Earnings
—Simultaneous Pursuit of Efficiency and Growth
Each of ITOCHU’s seven Division Companies is
actively working to increase profits and improve its
asset portfolio in respective business fields, including
efforts to solidify the performance of group compa-
nies. Through such efforts, each Division Company
has successfully increased its gross trading profit
and dramatically improved ROA efficiency.
* For details of the trend in ROA, please refer to the respective
Division Company pages.
