Jiro Takemori
President, Machinery Company
Machinery Company
Net Income from Major Group Companies*
Business Performance and Priority Policies in Fiscal
Years ended March 31 (Billions of yen)
• ITOCHU Sanki Corporation
• Century Medical, Inc.
• MCL Group Ltd.
• ITOCHU Automobile America Inc.
• Century Leasing System, Inc.
*ITOCHU’s share of net income 
2004
2005
¥0.3  
¥0.3
0.2  
0.5  
0.6  
1.0  
0.3
0.2
1.1
1.1
Year 2005
Business  performance  in  fiscal  year  2005  was  favorable,
with  trading-related  profits  trending  upwards.  North
America  and  the  CIS,  in  particular,  exhibited  growing
demand  in  the  automotive  and  construction  machinery
markets  and  brisk  market  conditions  for  shipping/mar-
itime transport also boosted our performance.
Within our primary markets, we concluded the following
One hallmark of the Machinery Company is its highly effi-
large-scale  contracts:  railway  transport  (subway  cars  for
cient management, underpinned by an ROA that is among
Guangzhou,  increasing  the  speed  of  the  existing  line)  in
the best for general trading companies in the machinery
China;  electric  power  (a  power  plant  in  Zouxian,
segment.  With  nearly  one-third  of  its  headquarters  per-
Shangdong,  etc.),  steel  manufacturing  (rolled  stainless
sonnel stationed at key branches overseas, the Machinery
steel),  and  electric  power  (Bakreswar  thermal  power
Company  also  has  the  best  overseas  network  among
plant) in India, and an LNG ship in Algeria. We also made
ITOCHU’s Division Companies. Historically active in over-
a  strategic,  forward-looking  investment  through  the  pur-
seas  markets,  we  have  a  particularly  strong  position  in
chase  of  preferred  shares  in  Isuzu  Motors  Ltd.  and  new
specific  markets  such  as  North  America,  Algeria,
technology  and  natural  resource  development  advance-
Indonesia,  Central  and  Eastern  Europe,  and  the  CIS.  In
ments through equity investments in H2Gen Innovations,
addition, we are active in many different types of business
Inc.,  a  US  company  involved  in  developing  small-scale
fields  in  the  strikingly  high-growth  BRIC  (Brazil,  Russia,
hydrogen generators for on-site use, and in Pearl Energy
India,  China)  countries,  including  oil  and  gas  projects  in
Ltd., a crude oil and gas company in Singapore engaged
Brazil, automotive exports to Russia, electric power plants
in oil and gas field development.
in India, and automotive exports and
railway projects in China. In line with
ITOCHU’s  core  segments,  we  are
aggressively advancing our activities
in  the  consumer-related  automobile
retail  business,  natural  resource
development-related  plant  business,
and  innovative  technology-related
business  as  priority  areas  for  the
entire Company.
26
LNG carrier for the Algerian joint venture project
