THE HEADQUARTERS
ITOCHU has appointed a Chief Operating Officer, Division Companies Operation
as well as a Chief Administrative Officer. These two Chief Officer-level positions
will add lateral functionality across the entire Company to ITOCHU’s operational
structure, in contrast to the typical vertical organization of Division Companies
divided by business area or product. The Chief Operating Officer, Division
Companies Operation provides, as necessary, instruction and guidance from a
Chief Operating Officer, Division Companies Operation
• Corporate Development
Office
This office supports the develop-
ment of cross-divisional and long-
term strategic projects in the con-
sumer business sector. In addi-
tion, it promotes business related
to small and medium-sized enter-
prises that involve alliances with
local governmental bodies and
investment funds such as the
Gambare Japanese Company
Fund. The office also conducts
CO2 emissions trading.
ITOCHU is accelerating efforts to develop various
new businesses through cross-divisional collabora-
tion and integration, putting priorities on the three
business areas identified in Frontier-2006 as pillars
of future earnings: consumer business; life care and
human care-related business; and innovative tech-
nology business. The Chief Operating Officer,
Division Companies Operations, is responsible for
adding a horizontal and cross-divisional aspect to
each Division Company’s new business develop-
ment, thereby creating a better combined strength
and an added value for the ITOCHU Group.
The Function and Value (FV) Committee will pro-
mote these activities together with the Corporate
Development Office, the Innovative Technology
Business Development Office, and the Strategic
Business Development Department (established in
April 2005), which collectively serve as the corpo-
rate development group.
• Function and Value (FV) Committee
Capitalizing on its activities from the previous fiscal year,
this committee, chaired by the Chief Operating Officer,
Division Companies Operation, continues to operate to
enhance the combined strength of the ITOCHU Group. Its
specific tasks are to consolidate and strengthen the
ITOCHU Group’s functions in the above three areas and
to create more value within the ITOCHU Group.
• Innovative Technology
Business Development Office
This office focuses on such businesses as functional food,
biopharmaceuticals, security, and nanotechnology. For
example, it promotes investment in genetic based drug
discovery and development ventures and joint develop-
ment of environmental technology, through strategic
alliances with the National Institute of Advanced Industrial
Science and Technology (AIST) of Japan and MPM Capital
in the U.S., the world’s largest biotech venture capital firm.
• Strategic Business Development Department
(Established in April 2005)
This office promotes business in areas new to ITOCHU
and untapped by ITOCHU, including projects requiring
cross-divisional integration and long term strategic pro-
jects. The office also creates new markets for life care and
human care-related business, meeting such societal
changes as the aging population. It also takes actions to
accelerate revenue generation in the innovative technolo-
gy business through joint ventures as well as mergers and
acquisitions.
Makoto Kato
Chief Operating Officer, Division Companies Operation
40
