Number of Employees
As of March 31, 2005
Consolidated* 
Non-consolidated 
7,330
452
*The number of consolidated employees is based on 
actual working employees excluding temporary staff.
Number of Subsidiaries and Associates
Domestic
Overseas
Products & Services
43
48
• Logs & Lumber • Pulp & Paper •
Natural rubber and tires • Ceramic
products • Basic chemicals • Fine
chemicals • Pharmaceutical products •
Inorganic chemicals • Plastics • Various
consumer products
Organization (As of April 1, 2005)
Chemicals, 
Forest Products & 
General Merchandise
Company
Planning & Coordinating Department 
Accounting, Affiliates Administration & Credit Control Department 
Life & Living Department 
Forest Products & General Merchandise Division 
Wood Products & Materials Department
Paper Materials & Products Department
Tire & Rubber Department
General Merchandise Department
Chemicals Division 
Organic Chemicals Department No.1
Organic Chemicals Department No.2
Inorganic Chemicals Department
Plastics Department
Decision  to  Increase  Production  Capacity  for  Cenibra
Pulp Operations
This  Division  Company  maintains  an  investment  in  Celulose
Nipo-Brasileira  S.A.  (Cenibra)  in  Brazil  through  Japan  Brazil
Paper and Pulp Resources Development Co., Ltd. Cenibra’s
eucalyptus  forestation  has  achieved  the  world’s  top-class
growth  volumes  due  to  Brazil’s  warm  climate  and  abundant
rainfall.  Cenibra’s  pulp  is  the  most  cost  competitive  in  the
world due to the advantage of raw material costs. Cenibra is
Cenibra Pulp Mill (Minas Gerais, Brazil)
also practicing sustainable forestry management. With 100%
which we anticipate a continuing increase in demand.
of  its  logs  obtained  from  the  forestation,  Cenibra  has  estab-
With Cenibra as our core operation, the Division Company is
lished an environmentally friendly operation.
targeting  the  number  one  position  worldwide  in  terms  of  vol-
In  order  to  make  an  effective  use  of  the  abundant  forest
ume handled for pulp trading. With Cenibra’s increased capaci-
resources, we have decided to invest an additional ¥26.0 bil-
ty  and  expanded  procurement  from  other  existing  supply
lion by 2007, boosting annual production from the current 1.0
sources, we are targeting sustained profit increases by actively
million tons to 1.2 million tons. We will also promote sales to
expanding sales to Asian markets, such as Japan and China,
China  and  Asia,  as  well  as  Europe  and  other  markets,  in
as well as to the European and North American markets.
generic drugs. In the upstream field, we decided to double
Net Income from Major Group Companies*
the  capacity  of  the  manufacturing  facilities  for  P.T.  Aneka
Years ended March 31 (Billions of yen)
Bumi  Pratama,  a  natural  rubber-manufacturing  subsidiary
• ITOCHU Kenzai Corp.
2004
2005
¥1.0  
¥1.5
in  Indonesia.  In  addition,  we  are  considering  participating
in a major petrochemical project in Asia, and construction
is  also  progressing  as  scheduled  for  our  PTA  (high  purity
terephthalic  acid)  business  in  Daxie,  China,  in  which  we
decided upon an investment in fiscal year 2004.
• ITOCHU Pulp & Paper Corp.
0.6  
• ITOCHU CHEMICAL FRONTIER Corporation 1.2  
• ITOCHU PLASTICS INC.
• Prime Source Building Products, Inc.
• CIPA Lumber Co., Ltd.
1.7  
3.2  
0.3  
0.5
1.0
1.8
7.5
0.9
The  above  operations  resulted  in  gross  trading  profit
*ITOCHU’s share of net income 
totaling ¥105.9 billion in fiscal year 2005, with a ¥14.0 bil-
lion year-on-year increase. Net income registered an ¥8.7
billion increase to ¥20.3 billion and ROA rose 1.4 percent-
age points to 3.5%.
33
