OVERSEAS OPERATIONS
Driven by the IT revolution, a liberalization of trade
and investment, and an expansion of free trade
agreements, we have experienced rapid globalization
and dramatic changes to the business activities of
general trading companies. It has thus become vital
to move away from traditional business methods
based solely on trading and to establish a new highly
profitable business model that looks ahead to meet
future needs. Using its advantageous global network
cultivated over many years as well as reliable infor-
mation gleaned through close ties to local markets,
ITOCHU has been making strategic business
advancements overseas.
Under the A&P strategy, we have shifted manage-
ment resources to businesses that generate the
most profit. North America and Asia in particular
were designated as priority markets, and many new
investments have been made in these regions.
1. North America
Performance for Fiscal Year 2005
ITOCHU’s North American operations center on ITOCHU
International Inc. (III). For fiscal year 2005, III’s net income
was ¥8.6 billion, a dramatic year-on-year improvement
compared to the previous fiscal year’s ¥1.4 billion. We saw
positive developments overall, due to favorable economic
conditions in the U.S. Because the North American hous-
ing market in particular showed steady growth, building
materials companies such as Prime Source Building
Products, Inc. and Master-Halco, Inc., an equipment mate-
rials distributor, helped boost our overall profit. Also,
Multiquip, Inc., a construction equipment and small-sized
power generator distributor achieved a significant recovery
in its performance during the last fiscal year and is continu-
ing to perform well.
Measures Taken during Fiscal Year 2005
• Power plant operations and maintenance service is one
of ITOCHU’s key businesses in North America. Through
Tyr Energy Inc., an III subsidiary, we established Tyr
Capital, LLC., an investment fund for power plants. To
promote independent ownership of power-related assets,
we also made an equity investment in top-level independ-
ent power producers (IPP), whose operation and mainte-
nance were provided by III subsidiary North American
Energy Services Inc. 
• In the consumer and retail-related segment, ITOCHU
made an investment in and established a global strategic
relationship with high-end gourmet store operator Dean &
Deluca, with which ITOCHU has been active in develop-
ing operations in Japan.
• In the medical biotechnology segment, by making use of
a cooperative relationship with its strategic business part-
ner MPM Capital, L.P. ITOCHU invested in ARYx
Therapeutics, Inc., a venture company developing new
medicines, as a channel to promote a joint business with
a Japanese pharmaceutical company.
2. China and Other Parts of Asia
Performance for Fiscal Year 2005
Asian economies have generally shown a growth trend,
although actual growth conditions vary from country to
country. In fiscal year 2005, ITOCHU’s business in Asia, in
particular China and Thailand, was robust, with year-on-
year net income in the region rising from ¥6.3 billion to ¥9.2
billion. Financial business in Hong Kong and trade in the
consumer and retail-related segment showed particularly
positive results.
Measures Taken during Fiscal Year 2005
China, considered to be the production center of the world,
is rapidly growing as a giant consumer market. As China is
ITOCHU’s most important market, we are expanding our
business to take advantage of China’s increasing demand
and changes brought on by its deregulation and the open-
ing of its market. We have also aggressively developed our
local business activities. For example, we have formed
partnerships with leading Chinese corporations.
• In the textile sector, the easing of export quotas on
Chinese products boosted our exports to Europe and the
38
