Deferred Income Taxes
Deferred tax assets are an important factor in the Company’s
consolidated balance sheets. Therefore, accounting judgment
on evaluation of deferred income taxes has a substantial
impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
To consider record of allowance for deferred tax assets,
ITOCHU reports the realizable amount of deferred income
taxes, taking into consideration future taxable income and fea-
sible tax planning. To evaluate realizable amount, it considers
information such as historical records and any available infor-
mation related to the future. 
The management of the Company believes these estima-
tions of realizable amount of deferred income taxes are ratio-
nal. However, allowance for deferred income taxes may
increase or decrease depending on changes in taxable
income during the tax planning period and changes in tax
planning strategies, which may have a material impact on the
Company’s consolidated financial statements.
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
If a part of the carrying amount is determined to be unrecover-
able due to changes in the situation for long-lived assets used
for business and intangible assets whose useful lives are finite,
ITOCHU recognizes the impairment of long-lived assets based
on fair value by calculating the sum of the outcome of the use
of the long-lived asset and future cash flows (before discounts)
resulting from its sale, and in case the sum falls below the car-
rying amount.
The management of the Company believes these calcula-
tions of estimated future cash flows and fair value have been
done in a rational manner. However, fluctuations in estimated
future cash flows and fair value due to unpredictable changes
in business conditions may reduce the evaluation of long-lived
assets, which may have a material impact on the Company’s
consolidated financial statements.
New Accounting Pronouncements
a. Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations
In March 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(“FASB”) issued Interpretation 47 (“FIN 47”), “Accounting for
Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations — an interpretation
of FASB Statement No. 143.”  FIN 47 clarifies that the term
conditional asset retirement obligation as used in SFAS 143
refers to a legal obligation to perform an asset retirement
activity in which the timing and (or) method of settlement are
conditional on a future event that may or may not be within the
control of the entity.
FIN 47 is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15,
2005, and the effect of adoption of FIN 47 on the Company
and its subsidiaries’ financial position and results of operations
is currently under consideration and cannot be reasonably
estimated until further analysis is completed.
b. Accounting for Stripping Costs Incurred during
Production in the Mining Industry
The FASB EITF reached a consensus at the meeting of March,
2005 on EITF 04-6, “Accounting for Stripping Costs Incurred
during Production in the Mining Industry.”  In Issue EITF 04-6,
the cost of removing overburden and waste materials to
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
Goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets with indefinite
useful lives are no longer amortized, but are instead tested for
impairment at least annually and between annual tests if an
event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely
than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its car-
rying amount. Fair value, which is indispensable for the impair-
ment test, is estimated by discounted future cash flows based
on the business plan. 
The management of the Company believes these calcula-
tions of estimated future cash flows and fair value have been
done in a rational manner. However, fluctuations in estimated
future cash flows and fair value due to unpredictable changes
in business conditions may reduce the evaluation of goodwill
and other intangible assets, which may have a material impact
on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
Cost of Retirement and Severance Benefits
The Company and certain Group companies calculate the
cost of its employees’ retirement and severance benefits and
pension obligations based on the same types of assumptions
used in actuarial calculations, which include such important
estimations as discount rates, retirement rates, death rates,
increase rates of salary and long-term expected rates of return
on plan assets. To determine each of these assumptions, the
Company comprehensively judges all available information
including market trends such as interest rate changes.
The management of the Company believes the determina-
tion of these assumptions has been done in a rational manner.
However, any difference between the assumptions and the
actual conditions may influence the future retirement benefit
costs and pension liabilities, which may have a material impact
on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
access mineral deposits are referred to as “stripping costs,”
and stripping costs incurred during the production phase of a
mine are variable production costs that should be included in
the costs of the inventory produced during the period that the
stripping costs are incurred.  EITF 04-6 is effective for the first
reporting period in financial statements issued for fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 2005, and the effect of adop-
tion of EITF 04-6 on the Company and its subsidiaries’ finan-
cial position and results of operations is currently under
consideration and cannot be reasonably estimated until further
analysis is completed.
c. Accounting Changes and Error Corrections
In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS 154, “Accounting
Changes and Error Corrections — a replacement of APB
Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3.”
SFAS 154 is effective for accounting changes and corrections
of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15,
2005. Because the effects are attributable to future events,
the effect of adoption of SFAS 154 on the Company and its
subsidiaries’ financial position and results of operations cannot
be reasonably estimated.
89
