consists of not only net income or loss but also changes in
foreign currency translation adjustments, minimum pension lia-
bility adjustments, net unrealized holding gains and losses on
certain investments in “Marketable securities” and “Other
investments”, and net unrealized holding gains and losses on
derivative instruments, on a net-of-tax basis.
r. Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
In accordance with SFAS 133, “Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities,” SFAS 138, “Accounting
for Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging
Activities — an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133” and
SFAS 149, “Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities,” the Company and its
subsidiaries recognize all derivative instruments, such as for-
eign exchange contracts, interest rate swap contracts and
commodity price contracts, in the financial statements mea-
sured at fair value, regardless of the purpose or intent for hold-
ing them, as either assets or liabilities.
The accounting for changes in fair value depends on the
intended use of the derivative instruments and resulting hedge
effectiveness.
All derivative instruments are recognized on the balance
sheet at their fair value. The Company and its subsidiaries
designate and account for derivative instruments as follows:
• “Fair value hedge”: a hedge of the fair value of a recognized
asset or liability or of an unrecognized firm commitment.
The changes in fair value of recognized assets or liabilities or
unrecognized firm commitments and related derivative
instruments that are designated and qualify as fair value
hedges are recorded in earnings if the hedges are consid-
ered highly effective.
• “Cash flow hedge”: a hedge of the variability of cash flow to
be received or paid related to a forecasted transaction or a
recognized asset or liability. The changes in fair value of
derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as
cash flow hedges are recorded in “Accumulated other com-
prehensive income (loss)” if the hedges are considered
highly effective.
This treatment is continued until earnings are affected by
the variability in cash flows to be received or paid related to
the forecasted transactions or the recognized assets or lia-
bilities designated as the hedged items. The ineffective por-
tion of the hedge is currently reported in earnings.
• “Foreign currency hedge”: a hedge of foreign-currency fair
value or cash flow. The changes in fair value or cash flow of
recognized assets or liabilities, unrecognized firm commit-
ments or forecasted transactions and derivatives that are
designated and qualify as foreign-currency fair value or cash
flow hedges are recorded in either earnings or
“Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” if the
hedges are considered highly effective.
Recognition in earnings or “Accumulated other comprehen-
sive income (loss)” is dependent on the treatment of foreign
currency hedges as fair value hedges or cash flow hedges.
The Company and its subsidiaries meet the documentation
requirements as prescribed by SFAS 133 and SFAS 138,
which include a statement of its risk-management objective
and the strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
In addition, a formal assessment is made at the hedge’s
inception and periodically thereafter at every quarter on an on-
going basis, as to whether the derivatives used in hedging
activities are highly effective in off-setting changes in the fair
values or cash flows of hedged items.
Hedge accounting is discontinued for ineffective hedges, if
any. The changes in fair value of derivative instruments related
to discontinued hedges are recognized in earnings currently. 
The changes in fair value of derivative instruments for trad-
ing purposes are recorded in earnings.
s. Issuance of Stock by Subsidiaries or Associated
Companies
With respect to the issuance of shares to a third party by a
subsidiary or an associated company, the resulting gain or
loss arising from the change in the Company’s relative owner-
ship interest is recorded in earnings in the period when such
shares are issued.
t. Leases
The Company and its subsidiaries lease fixed assets under
direct financing leases and operating leases as a lessor.
Income from direct financing leases is recognized by amortiz-
ing unearned income over the lease term at a constant peri-
odic rate of return on the net investment. Operating lease
income is recognized over the lease term on a straight-line
basis.
The Company and its subsidiaries lease fixed assets under
capital leases and operating leases as a lessee. For capital lease
obligations, interest expense is recognized over the lease term
at a constant periodic rate on the lease obligation. Depreciation
of the leased assets is recognized over the lease term on a
straight-line basis. Rental expense on operating leases is recog-
nized over the lease term on a straight-line basis.
u. Guarantees
In accordance with FIN 45, “Guarantor’s Accounting and
Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect
Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others,” the Company and its
subsidiaries recognize, at the inception of a guarantee, a liabil-
ity for the fair value of the obligation undertaken for those guar-
antees newly issued or modified after December 31, 2002.
v. Classification of Mineral Rights
In accordance with EITF 04-2, “Whether Mineral Rights are
Tangible or Intangible Assets,” FASB Staff Position (“FSP”)
SFAS 141-1 and SFAS 142-1 “Interaction of FASB
Statements No. 141, Business Combinations, and No. 142,
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, and EITF Issue No. 04-
2, “Whether Mineral Rights Are Tangible or Intangible Assets””
and FSP SFAS 142-2, “Application of FASB Statement No.
142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, to Oil- and Gas-
Producing Entities,” all mineral rights held by mining, oil- and
gas-producing entities have been reclassified as tangible
assets on Consolidated Balance Sheets as of March 31,
2005, although such mineral rights were previously classified
as intangible assets.
98
