Number of Employees
As of March 31, 2005
Consolidated* 
Non-consolidated 
6,637
361
*The number of consolidated employees is based on 
actual working employees excluding temporary staff.
Number of Subsidiaries and Associates
Domestic
Overseas
Products & Services
75
23
• Wheat, barley • Vegetable oils •
Soybeans, corn • Juice, coffee • Sugar
• Dairy products • Marine, livestock,
agri products • Frozen foods •
Processed foods • Pet foods • Soft
drinks • Liquor
Organization (As of April 1, 2005)
Food Company
Planning & Coordinating Department 
Administration Department 
Affiliate Administration & Risk Management Department 
Provisions Division 
Oilseeds, Oils & Fats Department
Grain & Feed Department
Sugar, Confectionary Materials & Dairy Products Department
Coffee & Beverage Marketing Department
Fresh Food & Food Business Solutions  Division 
Marine Products Department
Meat Products Department 
Food Marketing Development Department
Agri Products Department
Food Products Marketing & Distribution Division  
Food Products Marketing & Distribution Department No.1
Food Products Marketing & Distribution Department No.2
FamilyMart Department 
Financial Highlights
20 (Billions of yen)
4 (%)
(Billions of yen) 800
10
2
-10
-2
’03 
(Years ended March 31)
400
-400
’04 
’05 
Net income (loss) (Above Left)
Total assets (Right) 
ROA (Below Left)
(As of March 31)
Net income exc. 
impairment loss on
goodwill relating to 
FamilyMart shares
Against  this  background,  the  Company  is  currently
working to strengthen distribution functions for mid-stream
operations and plans to establish a high-level supply infra-
structure  that  better  responds  to  customer  needs.  We
have made an additional investment in NIPPON ACCESS,
INC.  and  have  established  Dolce  Co.,  Ltd.,  a  wholesale
company of confectionary. 
Due to increases in the transaction volume of raw mate-
rials and food distribution subsidiaries, gross trading prof-
its for fiscal year 2005 rose by ¥5.2 billion year-on-year to
¥136.2  billion.  Despite  this,  we  posted  a  net  loss  of  ¥9.3
billion  for  the  period  due  to  recognition  of  a  ¥45.1  billion
impairment  loss  on  goodwill  relating  to  shares  of
FamilyMart  Co.,  Ltd.  Excluding  the  impairment  loss,  this
virtually  marks  a  profit  increase  of  ¥4.0  billion  and  a  0.4
percentage point rise in ROA to 2.3%.
Accelerating  the  Establishment  of  FamilyMart
Stores Overseas
Making use of the know-how we have cultivated domesti-
cally,  the  Company  intends  to  pursue  an  aggressive
expansion  of  FamilyMart  convenience  stores  overseas  in
cooperation with FamilyMart Co., Ltd. Following previous
launches in Taiwan, South Korea, and Thailand, we con-
ducted an official debut in Shanghai, China in July 2004.
In addition, we opened a store on the U.S. West Coast in
July 2005, with the intention of making optimal use of our
functions as a trading company to provide full support for
the FamilyMart’s “Global 20,000 Store Plan,” while contin-
uing  to  strengthen  ties  with  peripheral  industries  such  as
food supplies, logistics, and vendor operations.
* Please  refer  to  pages  18-19  for  the  feature  article  on  FamilyMart-
related business.
Opening of a FamilyMart store in Shanghai, China
35
