Corporate Ethics and Compliance
Corporate Ethics and Compliance System
Compliance Education
Since September 2002, the ITOCHU Group has imple-
We educate and train employees on a group-wide basis
mented a system striving toward thorough compliance
to ensure that all employees understand the importance
under the Corporate Ethics and Compliance Committee,
of compliance. Division Companies and group companies
as shown in the diagram below. 
also undertake original education and training with manu-
In April 2005, because the committee was given an
als prepared by Compliance Officers in cooperation with
additional function of promoting CSR, it was renamed
the Compliance Office.
CSR Compliance Committee.
Hotline
In fiscal year 2005, we fully revised our compliance edu-
cation pamphlet for the first time in two years, and distrib-
uted it to employees, directors, and officers. The pam-
Every Group employee is required to report violations of
phlet was also translated into English and distributed to
laws and other specified situations to his or her superior.
overseas regional staff. 
In cases where such violations do not get corrected or
We also began providing education programs through
whistle-blowing would be awkward, a hotline is available
e-learning. All employees took and passed courses on
for directly contacting the head of the Compliance Office
Information Security and Corporate Ethic and
and outside counsels. Written rules are in place guaran-
Compliance. In fiscal year 2006, we plan to create new e-
teeing that employees suffer no negative consequences
learning programs on the “ITOCHU’s Credo and Way”
for whistle-blowing.
and “Corporate Code of Conduct,” and have all employ-
ees, including overseas regional staff, take the programs.
Current ITOCHU Group CSR and Compliance System
President and CEO (HMC)
Advisory body
CSR Compliance Committee
   Chairman: Executive Vice President Fujita (also serves as CCO)
   Secretariat: CSR & Compliance Division
Reviews and 
advises
Outside Counsels
(e.g. attorneys)
Establish a Compliance 
Liaison Council
Division Companies
Division Company Compliance Officer
   Shall create a system and programs that fit the specific characteristics of that Division Company
Overseas and Domestic Offices
Regional Compliance Officer
   Shall create a system and programs that fit the specific 
   characteristics of that region
Group Companies
Compliance Officer (the president or a director of that company
designated by the president of that company)
   Shall create a system and programs that fit the specific characteristics 
   of that company
51
