Social Contributions
One of the three pillars of “The ITOCHU Credo” is to
Social Contributions as a Corporation
make societal benefits a reality—to make the world a rich-
ITOCHU focuses on five areas of social contribution activ-
er and more comfortable place to live. To that end, we
ities: welfare; education, culture, and art; the environment;
engage in social contribution activities from an internation-
international exchange; and local regions. 
al perspective and are fully aware of our obligation to be a
In the area of education (culture and art), the ITOCHU
good corporate citizen.
Foundation was established in 1974 to provide activities
to help in the sound upbringing of children. Such activities
Social Contributions through Business
include the year-round operation of Tokyo Elementary
ITOCHU promotes businesses that seek to achieve a
and Junior High School Students’ Center, outdoor educa-
“harmony of corporate benefits and social benefits” and
tion programs such as summer and winter camps, and
that make use of our own information, know-how, and
children’s library assistance projects.
marketing expertise. A unique example of such efforts is
In the area of environment, ITOCHU and its group com-
our promotion of regional development-type businesses
panies have been supporting the University of Tokyo’s
through alliances with local governments both in Japan
Center for Climate System Research (CCSR) in basic
and overseas. Through alliances with Gifu, Fukui, and
research on global warming since 1992, and the results
Shimane Prefectures in Japan; Shandong Province,
are disclosed to the public at the annual ITOCHU
Jiangsu Province, and Nanjing City in China; and New
Symposium.
Mexico in the U.S., we are providing diverse supports for
To promote our coexistence with local communities, we
the development of local industry through our businesses. 
hold the ITOCHU LOBBY CONCERT every year. We have
After establishing the Gambare Japanese Company
been inviting the New York Symphonic Ensemble for a
Fund in July 2003 to support small and medium-sized
summer concert performed in the first floor lobby of our
enterprises (SMEs) with high technical capabilities, we
Tokyo Headquarters Building since 1992. We invite
also developed the locally-oriented Gambare Kansai Fund
employees and their families, as well as local residents,
in January 2004, as well as the Gambare Hokkaido
school officials, and those from facilities for disabled per-
Company Fund and Gambare Gifu Fund in December
sons to come and enjoy the performance. 
2004. ITOCHU will promote the growth of SMEs, which
are considered as the backbone of the Japanese econo-
Employees’ Social Contribution Activities
my, by providing investments and sales supports to
The ITOCHU Group’s volunteer organization, “Fureai no
promising SMEs through such funds, the total amount of
Network,” which currently has approximately 130 mem-
which is now worth ¥4.3 billion. At the same time, we
bers, was established in July 1994. The organization is
wish to contribute to the revitalization of local economies.
planned and operated on a volunteer basis. To allow for
(Three photos from the left: ZERO/SPORTS Co., Ltd. in
more specialized activities through the acquisition of qual-
Gifu Prefecture, invested by both “Gambare Japanese
ifications and skills, four subcommittees were created:
Company Fund” and “Gambare Gifu Fund”)
nature watching, disaster relief, contribution by articles,
and reading aloud at senior welfare centers. As part of
our efforts to support these employee volunteer activities,
we have put in place a volunteer time-off system (a leave
of absence was taken by eight employees in fiscal 2005).
We also provide a matching system for fund raising activi-
ties for disaster relief, as well as subsidies to help support
employees who wish to attend training courses. 
53
