(3) Credit Risks
ITOCHU conducts a vast array of commercial transactions
with its trading partners, both domestically and overseas.
ITOCHU therefore bears credit risk from the non-payment of
obligations held by the Group due to the deteriorating credit
status or insolvency of ITOCHU’s partners.
In the Company, the credit department of each Division
Company, which is independent of the business departments,
manages credit risk on both quantitative and qualitative bases.
Each proposal submitted by a business division undergoes
careful screening by the credit department, which then sets an
appropriate credit limit upon the completion of review. Specific
expiration dates are set for credit limits. These limits and the
status of trade receivables are monitored on a periodic basis
along with periodic reviews of the status of debt collections
and delinquencies. The necessary reserves are determined
and booked on this basis.
Occurrence of credit risks could seriously affect the financial
position and results of operations of ITOCHU.
(4) Country Risk
ITOCHU has trading relationships with many foreign countries.
These include handling foreign goods and investments in for-
eign trading partners. ITOCHU therefore is exposed to country
risks resulting from regulations imposed by foreign govern-
ments, political instability, or restrictions on the transfers of
funds.
In response to these country risks, in addition to taking
appropriate countermeasures for each transaction, with the
aim of avoiding a concentration of exposure, ITOCHU is
endeavoring to manage risk by setting total limit guidelines
and limits for each country and setting credit policies in accor-
dance with each country. 
ITOCHU does however have debts in countries and regions
where there is a relatively high probability of country risk
emerging, and those in which business activities are being
expanded through loans, investment and guarantees for mon-
etary indebtedness. When those debts and business activities
face events caused by political, economic, or social instability,
ITOCHU cannot entirely deny the possibility that those events
may have a significant impact on the sustainability of
ITOCHU’s transactions and business activities in such coun-
tries and regions. Such occurrences could have a serious,
adverse effect on the financial position and results of opera-
tions of ITOCHU.
(5) Investment Risk
Investing in a variety of businesses is one of the major busi-
ness activities of ITOCHU. In managing ITOCHU’s portfolio of
investments strategically, ITOCHU faces serious decisions
regarding the initiation of new investments that will produce
profit commensurate with the attendant risk and the with-
drawal from investments that do not produce profits consis-
tent with attendant risks.
In considering a new investment, monitoring existing busi-
nesses and withdrawing from an investment, ITOCHU has a
standard for decision making. However, serious adverse influ-
ences on the future corporate results and financial standing of
ITOCHU are possible in the event that ITOCHU is unable to
achieve ITOCHU’s forecasted results due to a deteriorating
economic environment for businesses in which ITOCHU has
invested or the deteriorating corporate results and financial
standing of ITOCHU’s partners, and in the event that ITOCHU
is unable to withdraw from a business or restructure
ITOCHU’s business under a timeframe or method that
ITOCHU desires. In such instances, whole or partial invest-
ment losses or the infusion of additional funds may be
required; in such case it could affect the future corporate
results and financial standing of ITOCHU.
In fiscal 2005, the Company recognized ¥45.1 billion (¥26.6
billion, after income tax) of impairment loss on ITOCHU’s
equity method investment in FamilyMart, in which ITOCHU has
an interest through ITOCHU’s consolidated subsidiary, Family
Corporation Inc. 
Excluding FamilyMart losses for investments in equity-
method associated companies were insignificant for fiscal
2005. However, the necessity of booking impairment losses
could arise should the likelihood of recovering ITOCHU’s
investment diminish due to poor corporate results for
investees, or should stock prices be expected to drop below
specified levels for a considerable period of time. Such occur-
rences could have a serious, adverse effect on the financial
position and results of operations of ITOCHU.
(6) Risks Due to Loss on Property and Equipment-net
ITOCHU is exposed to impairment loss risks on fixed assets
held, such as real estate, aircraft, and ships. Impairment
losses on fixed assets for the fiscal year ended March 31,
2005 were minimal and ITOCHU does not foresee at present
any necessity for booking impairment losses. However,
ITOCHU would be required to recognize impairment losses
should the economic value of fixed assets deteriorate due to
decreased demand or further deterioration in market condi-
tions for each of the assets. Such an occurrence could seri-
ously affect the future corporate results of ITOCHU. 
(7) Risks Due to Fund Raising
ITOCHU uses ALM (Asset Liability Management) to ensure the
necessary funding for its businesses and to ensure liquidity
through borrowings from domestic and international financial
institutions, as well as the issuance of corporate bonds.
However, should ITOCHU’s credit worthiness in the stock
market deteriorate due to a significant lowering of the
Company’s credit rating, or should there be a significant
change in the lending policies of financial institutions such as
restriction of credit for ITOCHU’s Company due to an
upheaval in the financial systems in primary financial markets,
ITOCHU could experience an inability to raise funds when
necessary or under desirable conditions and could conse-
quently experience an increase in funding costs. This could
exert a serious, adverse influence on the financial position and
results of operations of ITOCHU.
(8) Risks Due to Benefit Expenses and Benefit Obligations
The benefit expenses and benefit obligations of ITOCHU are
calculated based on mathematical calculations that utilize a
variety of assumptions such as the discount rate for benefit
obligations and the expected rate of return on investment of
pension assets. For fiscal 2005, there was no shortfall in accu-
mulated pension assets after returning the public pension por-
tion held by the employee pension fund to the government
and shifting part of a tax qualified pension to defined contribu-
tion pension plan. However, should it become necessary to
change the assumptions on which the mathematical calcula-
tions are based or should pension assets be affected by a
deterioration in the stock market, it is possible that benefit
expenses and benefit obligations could increase and that
additional contributions to pension assets would be neces-
sary. The financial position and results of operations of
ITOCHU could be seriously affected by such occurrences.
86
