The Headquarters Management Committee and
Reinforcing Disclosure and Accountability
Other Internal Committees
The ITOCHU Corporate Code of Conduct states that
Established as a support body to the President, the
ITOCHU values communication with its shareholders,
Headquarters Management Committee (HMC) discusses
other stakeholders, and the public at large, and will fulfill
general management policy and important issues relating
its duty to make full, fair, and timely disclosure of corpo-
to management. We have also created other internal
rate information. In keeping with this commitment, we
committees that assist the decision-making of the
have taken steps to ensure that our practice of disclosure
President and Board of Directors through the careful
is timely and appropriate. We have established internal
examination and discussion of management issues in
policy on disclosure and set up a system of close com-
their particular areas. (Please see the table on page 46.)
munication among concerned organizations. We are also
Division Company System
planning to improve further our disclosure system by
establishing a Disclosure Committee from fiscal year
Under the Division Company system that we have had in
2006. 
place since fiscal year 1998, seven Companies—Textile;
Machinery; Aerospace, Electronics & Multimedia; Energy,
Risk Management
Metals & Minerals; Chemicals, Forest Products & General
To deal adequately with various risks associated with our
Merchandise; Food; and Finance, Realty, Insurance &
business operations, such as market risk, credit risk, and
Logistics Services—bear full responsibility for managing
investment risk, we are reinforcing a self-management
each of their business areas with an autonomy compara-
system for individual types of risk by each Division
ble to that of an independent company. Decision-making
Company. We are also developing more sophisticated
in each of these Division Companies rests with its presi-
risk management techniques. Specifically, we have estab-
dent, who, with the support from the Division Company
lished internal covenants related to principal balance
Management Committee, promptly deals with the needs
sheet items and manage each exposure by setting expo-
of markets and clients. At the same time, the
sure limits, transaction guidelines, and profit requirements
Headquarters specializes in the planning of business
for each product category. We have also introduced the
strategy for ITOCHU as a whole and overall management.
management technique of RCM (Risk Capital
It also maintains control over the Division Companies by
Management) based on RAROC (Risk Adjusted Return on
setting covenants (total assets, interest-bearing debts,
Capital), and perform portfolio management using risk
risk assets, etc.) and exercising its authority with regard to
assets and a risk-return index (RRI) as management
particularly important issues. With autonomous manage-
indexes.  
ment by Division Companies on the one hand, and busi-
ness strategy planning for ITOCHU as a whole and overall
Enhancing the Internal Control System
management by Headquarters on the other, we have built
We have in place an Internal Control System for ensuring
a well-balanced and efficient management system. 
the proper execution of business by clarifying the authori-
ty and responsibilities associated with individual job posi-
tions and by incorporating appropriate checks and moni-
toring functions in the work process and achieving the
three following specific objectives of the internal control:
45
