Expanding Earnings
Vertical reinforcement (strengthening core segments led by each Division Company)
Challenge
Textile
Machinery
Aerospace,
Electronics &
Multimedia
Energy,
Metals &
Minerals
Chemicals,
Forest Products &
General 
Merchandise
Food
Finance, Realty,
Insurance &
Logistics
Brand
Automobile
trade
Apparel
Ships
IT
solution
Mobile &
contents
Energy
resources
Building
materials
Domestic food
distribution
Orient Corp.
-related business
Coal
Rubber, Tire
Food business
in China
Real estates
securitization
Industrial
machinery
project
Aerospace
Metal & mineral
resources
Plastics
Overseas
supply chain
source
Horizontal integration (expanding earnings by cross-company activity)
Consumer related sector, Natural resource development sector,
North America and Asia including China
Priority Measure 1: Expansion of Our Earnings
2. Cross-Company Focus Area 1: 
1. Vertical Reinforcement through Division Company
Leadership and Lateral Integration Across the Entire
Company
Under the previous mid-term management plan, we
selected priority A&P segments based on the major defini-
tion of Divisions or Division Companies. Reflecting the
results that the assets of A&P segments accounted for
nearly 80% of the total assets, under Frontier-2006 we will
select priority segments in much smaller units to speed up
selection and concentration aimed at expanding earnings.
Specifically, the Division Companies will each specify core
segments and proceed with the selection and concentra-
tion of management resources, thereby increasing the
earnings of Division Companies. We also will continue to
emphasize asset efficiency, setting a minimum require-
ment for all Division Companies to clear the hurdle of 2%
ROA and 8% RRI (vertical reinforcement).
Conversely, to strengthen lateral business development
across the Company beyond the framework of Division
Companies, we will exhibit our Group strength under the
primary leadership of the Function and Value (FV)
Committee, focusing on those fields requiring a cross-com-
pany effort such as the Consumer-Related sector, Natural
Resource Development sector, and markets in North
America and Asia, including China (lateral integration).    
Consumer-Related Sector 
ITOCHU is developing a broad spectrum of businesses in
a variety of fields associated with clothing, food, and
housing. Among these is the textile business, where we
boast overwhelming strength in fields ranging from raw
material development to the brand business. Also in the
foods business, we excel at grasping consumer needs at
our FamilyMart convenience stores and our leading food
distribution network. Other segments include chemicals,
forest products, and general merchandise, where we
manage operations ranging from the interior shop Illums
to global trade in materials such as rubber and pulp.
Along with these comprehensive vertical strengths,
ITOCHU is accelerating business development through
ongoing efforts to apply its comprehensive lateral
strengths, namely the formation of cross-Division
Company linkages. Examples include the expansion of
credit card operations of the Finance, Realty, Insurance &
Logistics Services Company through the FamilyMart con-
venience stores of the Food Company. Other linkages are
being formed involving the Aerospace, Electronics &
Multimedia Company, which create logistics control sys-
tems by attaching the wireless IC tag “µ chips” they handle
to the brand products of the Textile Company. In particu-
lar, our plan is for lateral integration at FamilyMart and
Orient Corporation to become a cornerstone of our efforts.  
15
