Masahiro Okafuji
President, Textile Company
Textile Company
The Textile Company records profits far in excess of
Business Performance and Priority Policies in Fiscal
other  general  trading  companies  in  the  area  of  tex-
Year 2005
tiles, with its gross trading profit more than four times
Business  conditions  in  the  domestic  market  remained
that of the next leading general trading company.
challenging  in  fiscal  year  2005.  Clothing  sales  declined
The  Textile  Company’s  strengths  include:  (1)  a
6%  for  department  stores  and  8%  for  other  volume
high capability to develop and commercialize prod-
retailers.
ucts  of  advanced  materials;  (2)  integrated  business
Despite  difficult  circumstances,  we  developed  new
development  ranging  from  product  development
businesses  based  on  a  consumer-oriented  marketing
and  procurement,  to  planning,  manufacturing,  and
strategy,  characterized  by:  (1)  the  acquisition  of  new
distribution  (vertical  integration);  (3)  global  expan-
brands such as LA PERLA and HEAD; (2) the launch of a
sion  including  third-country  transactions  (including
new  brand  business,  renoma  PARIS,  in  China;  (3)  the
market  penetration  in  China  before  any  other  trad-
acquisition of many new business contracts in the uniform
ing  company;  and  (4)  strong  marketing  power  for
industry;  and  (4)  the  expansion  of  applications  of
our brand business. 
advanced materials including high quality Egyptian cotton
and  Tasmanian  wool  through  cooperation  with  apparel
Financial Highlights
makers. 
(Billions of yen) 600
ties.  Import  restrictions  within  Europe  and  the  U.S.  con-
Internationally, we also expanded our market opportuni-
15 (Billions of yen)
6 (%)
10
4
400
200
’03 
(Years ended March 31)
’04 
’05 
(As of March 31)
Net income (Above Left)
Total assets (Right) 
ROA (Below Left)
24
cerning the quantity of textile products made in China and
other Asian countries were fully removed in January 2005.
Also, it now appears that foreign companies in China will
have  the  opportunity  to  acquire  domestic  distribution
rights.  We  see  these  developments  as  an  opportunity  to
expand our sales within China and promote China-based
trade  with  Europe  and  the  U.S.  To  this  end,  we  have
strengthened  ties  with  leading  local  companies  in  China
and  established  a  stronger  framework  for  exporting
goods  to  Europe  and  the  U.S.  through  our  subsidiaries,
ITOCHU  Textile  (China)  Co.,  Ltd.  and  Prominent  Apparel
Ltd.  We  have  also  expanded  our  manufacturing  bases
located in various parts of Asia.
In addition to these advancements, we generated posi-
tive  results  in  our  brand  business  including  LANVIN  and
