Special Feature 2: Business Development in ITOCHU’s Key Areas of Competence
Top in the Brand Business among
General Trading Companies
The brand business is ITOCHU’s foremost business. Over the years, we have held the leading position
in the industry, successfully and profitably adding value in areas from apparel to food and household
goods, bringing abundance and comfort to the lives and hearts of our consumers.
A Positive Cycle of Brands
Generating New Brands
Our  brand  business  does  not  merely
trade  in  the  intangible  assets  of  brands
and trademarks. A brand is the embodi-
ment  of  people’s  love  and  support  over
many  long  years.  ITOCHU  assumes  a
pivotal  role  in  “brand  marketing”:  we
discover brands and draw out the history
and  culture  inherent  in  them,  offering
suitable  merchandise  for  the  Japanese
market  and  delivering  it  to  consumers.
We  maximize  a  brand’s  value  through
comprehensive  brand  marketing  in
cooperation  with  licensees  and  distribu-
tors,  taking  the  initiative  in  aspects  of
product  marketability  such  as  design,
An advertisement of LANVIN
Examples of ITOCHU’s Brand Business
quality, and price, as well as in manag-
ing  promotions,  retail  stores,  service,
logistics, and aftercare.
The  beginning  of  our  brand  business
dates to 1978, when an employee saw a
mother  and  daughter  choosing  suits  for
the father at a men’s tailor. Encouraged
by this, the employee later began creat-
ing  a  brand  for  high-end  men’s  wear
fabrics  with  which  women  could  easily
identify,  focusing  on  making  the  added
value  of  a  product  clearly  understand-
able to purchasers. This employee’s ini-
tiative is what led to our launch of a full-
fledged brand business.
Since  that  time,  we  have  always
moved  ahead  of  our  competitors  in
developing  new  platforms  for  business.
We  have  been  expanding  our  fields  of
operation from importation to licensing,
expanding  sales  channels  from  depart-
ment  stores  to  general  merchandising
stores,  and  expanding  the  number  of
items we handle in addition to acquiring
new brands through alliances and acqui-
sitions. Since changing the name of our
brand  business  organization  from  the
Import  Textile  &  Fashion  Goods
Division  to  the  Brand  Marketing
Division*  in  September  2001,  we  have
Luxury Brands
• LANVIN (Apparel, fashion goods)
• Paul Smith (Apparel, fashion goods)
• BALLY (Shoes, apparel, fashion goods)
• SCAVIA (Jewelry)
• LA PERLA (Lingerie)
• TANINO CRISCI (Shoes)
• HUNTING WORLD (Bags, fashion goods)
• WOLFORD(Stockings & body wear)
• CHROME HEARTS (Jewelry, leather goods,
fashion goods)
Fusion of Food and Music
• DEAN & DELUCA(Gourmet food store)
• Blue Note (Jazz restaurant)
• Richard-Ginori (Fine porcelain)
Collaboration with Celebrities
• Kana nia • Ellesse (Mikako Kotani)
• DIOID (Daichi Suzuki)
• PP rikorino (Noriko Sakai)
Sports, Sports Casual Wear Brands
• CONVERSE (Footwear, sports casual wear, fashion goods)
• HEAD (Sports, casual wear, fashion goods)
• Sports Graphic Number (Collaboration with the magazine,
apparel, shoes, fashion goods)
• PRO-Keds (Shoes)
• new balance (apparel, fashion goods)
Brands Marketed in China and Asia
• Marco Azzali (men’s suits)
• renoma PARIS (High-quality men’s clothing:
Japan and China)
• CIMARRON (Stretch denim: Japan, Hong Kong, 
Taiwan, and Korea)
20
encountered  many  opportunities  not
only  from  the  textile  industry  but  also
from different industries as well. Indeed,
our  brand  business  is  in  a  cycle  of  “a
brand giving birth to a new brand busi-
ness.” Besides targeting new customers,
ITOCHU’s  brand  business  has  devel-
oped new business opportunities among
existing customers with whom we have
time-honored  relationships,  contributing
to greater profitability for the Company
as a whole, from materials to textiles to
apparel.
*Brand Marketing Divisions 1 & 2, as of today.
From Fashion Brands to
Lifestyles, From Japan to Asia
Our  brand  business  covers  the  whole
spectrum  of  lifestyles,  from  fashion
(clothing)  to  character  goods,  fashion
goods, shoes, high-quality pottery, luxu-
ry foods, music, and health-related prod-
ucts. We currently handle approximately
130  different  brands  and  are  incubating
new brand businesses, the most recent of
which  includes  the  fusion  of  food  and
music,  expansion  of  gourmet  food
stores,  and  collaboration  with  celebri-
ties.  In  recent  years,  we  have  expanded
our  business  to  Asian  countries  such  as
China  and  we  are  promoting  our  brand
business  on  an  overwhelming  scale,
even by international standards.
A DEAN & DELUCA shop (Shinagawa, Tokyo)
