w. Use of Estimates
The Company and its subsidiaries make estimates and
assumptions to prepare these financial statements. Such esti-
mates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of
assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and the disclosure
of contingent assets and liabilities, and actual results could dif-
fer from those estimates.
(3) New Accounting Standards
a. Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations
In March 2005, the FASB issued FIN 47, “Accounting for
Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations — an interpretation
of FASB Statement No. 143.” FIN 47 clarifies that the term
conditional asset retirement obligation as used in SFAS 143
refers to a legal obligation to perform an asset retirement
activity in which the timing and (or) method of settlement are
conditional on a future event that may or may not be within the
control of the entity. Although the timing and (or) method of
settlement may be conditional on a future event, the obligation
to perform the asset retirement activity is unconditional even
though uncertainty exists about the timing and (or) method of
settlement. Accordingly, FIN 47 requires an entity to recognize
a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement
obligation if the fair value of the liability can be reasonably esti-
mated when incurred. Uncertainty about the timing and (or)
method of settlement of a conditional asset retirement obliga-
tion should be factored in the measurement of the liability
when sufficient information exists.
In addition, FIN 47 clarifies when an entity would have suffi-
cient information to reasonably estimate the fair value of an
asset retirement obligation.
FIN 47 is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15,
2005, and the effect of adoption of FIN 47 on the Company
and its subsidiaries’ financial position and results of operations
is currently under consideration and cannot be reasonably
estimated until further analysis is completed. 
b. Accounting for Stripping Costs Incurred during
Production in the Mining Industry
The FASB EITF reached a consensus at the meeting of March,
2005 on EITF 04-6, “Accounting for Stripping Costs Incurred
during Production in the Mining Industry.”
In Issue EITF 04-6, the cost of removing overburden and
waste materials to access mineral deposits are referred to as
“stripping costs,” and stripping costs incurred during the pro-
duction phase of a mine are variable production costs that
should be included in the costs of the inventory produced dur-
ing the period that the stripping costs are incurred.
EITF 04-6 is effective for the first reporting period in financial
statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December
15, 2005, and the effect of adoption of EITF 04-6 on the
Company and its subsidiaries’ financial position and results of
operations is currently under consideration and cannot be rea-
sonably estimated until further analysis is completed.
c. Accounting Changes and Error Corrections
In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS 154, “Accounting
Changes and Error Corrections — a replacement of APB
Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3.”
SFAS 154 applies to all voluntary changes in accounting
principle and those changes required by an accounting pro-
nouncement in the unusual instance that the pronouncement
does not include specific transition provisions.
Accounting Principles Board (“APB”) Opinion 20 previously
required that most voluntary changes in accounting principle
be recognized by including in net income of the period of the
change the cumulative effect of changing to the new account-
ing principle, but SFAS 154 requires retrospective application
to prior periods’ financial statements of changes in accounting
principle, unless it is impracticable to determine either the
period-specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change.
When it is impracticable to determine the period-specific
effects of an accounting change on one or more individual
prior periods presented, SFAS 154 requires that the new
accounting principle be applied to the balances of assets and
liabilities as of the beginning of the earliest period for which
retrospective application is practicable and that a correspond-
ing adjustment be made to the opening balance of retained
earnings for that period rather than being reported in an
income statement. When it is impracticable to determine the
cumulative effect of applying a change in accounting principle
to all prior periods, SFAS 154 requires that the new account-
ing principle be applied as if it were adopted prospectively
from the earliest date practicable.
In addition, SFAS 154 requires that retrospective application
of a change in accounting principle be limited to the direct
effects of the change. Indirect effects of a change in account-
ing principle should be recognized in the period of the
accounting change, and a change in depreciation, amortiza-
tion, or depletion method should be accounted for as a
change in accounting estimate effected by a change in
accounting principle.
Moreover, SFAS 154 carries forward the guidance con-
tained in APB Opinion 20 for reporting the correction of an
error in previously issued financial statements and a change in
accounting estimate, and likewise requires justification of a
change in accounting principle on the basis of preferability.
SFAS 154 is effective for accounting changes and correc-
tions of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December
15, 2005. Because the effects are attributable to future
events, the effect of adoption of SFAS 154 on the Company
and its subsidiaries’ financial position and results of operations
cannot be reasonably estimated.
(4) Reclassification
Certain reclassifications and changes have been made to prior
year amounts to conform to the current year’s presentation.
The Company made some corrections of consolidated
financial statements for the prior years corresponding to the
corrections made by ITOCHU TECHNO-SCIENCE
Corporation (“CTC”), a subsidiary of the Company. CTC con-
cluded that some transactions with Medialinks Corporation did
not qualify for revenue recognition. The correction by the
Company was to reclassify “Trading margins and commis-
sions on trading transactions” to other income in the amount
of ¥1,070 million for the year ended March 31, 2003, and did
not have an impact on net income or stockholders’ equity.
99
