(9) Risks Due to Deferred Income Taxes
Deferred income tax assets are an important factor in
ITOCHU’s consolidated balance sheets. Therefore, accounting
judgment on evaluation of deferred income taxes has a sub-
stantial impact on ITOCHU’s consolidated financial state-
ments. To consider the necessity of an allowance for deferred
income taxes, ITOCHU reports the realizable amount of
deferred income taxes, taking into consideration future taxable
income and feasible tax planning strategies. The management
of ITOCHU believes these estimations of realizable amount of
deferred income taxes are rational. However, allowance for
deferred income taxes may increase or decrease depending
on changes in taxable income during the tax planning period,
changes in the tax system in each country including changes
in tax rates and changes in tax planning strategies. In that
case it could affect the financial position and results of opera-
tions of ITOCHU.
(10) Risks Due to Competition
Due to ITOCHU’s involvement in many different industries and
the fact that ITOCHU handles a vast array of products and
services, ITOCHU is open to competition from many different
companies, both domestic and foreign, including competition
from other general trading companies. ITOCHU cannot deny
the existence of other companies with superior experience,
technology, and funding capacity, who are in a position to
provide products and services that meet customer needs.
Moreover, the possibility of ever-greater competition from
companies in newly developing countries like China exists in
addition to ongoing competition from European and North
American companies due to the economic globalization of pri-
mary markets such as China and the U.S. ITOCHU could also
find its competitiveness unsustainable due to future events
such as deregulation, changes in the business environment
such as entrance into other industries, and technological inno-
vation. The advent of such risks could cause a corresponding
loss in competitiveness for ITOCHU, adversely affecting to the
financial position and results of operations of ITOCHU.
(11) Risks Associated with Significant Lawsuits
In July 2001, Citibank, N.A. and Citibank Canada, a wholly-
owned subsidiary of Citibank, N.A. (together, “Citibank”), filed
a complaint against ITOCHU International Inc. and III Holding
Inc. (previously named Copelco Financial Services Group,
Inc.), a wholly owned subsidiary of ITOCHU International Inc.
(collectively, “III”), in the United States District Court for the
Southern District of New York. Citibank was alleging violation
of the federal securities laws, fraud, and breach of contract
and related claims arising in connection with Citibank’s acqui-
sition of all the common stock of Copelco Capital. Inc.
(“Copelco”), a former wholly-owned subsidiary of III Holding
Inc., for a purchase price of approximately US$666 million in
May 2000. More specifically, Citibank was alleging that
Citibank relied on the accuracy of Copelco’s financial state-
ments and other documents and statements provided and
given by III to Citibank and that such financial statements had
not been prepared in compliance with U.S. GAAP and/or in
accordance with Copelco’s internal accounting rules and
practices in connection with, inter alia, accounting and collec-
tion policies and procedures of lease receivables, the amount
of charge-off concerning delinquent lease receivables, loss
reserve methodology, earnings from general ledger accounts
and reconciliation of investment accounts, based upon which
Citibank sought compensatory damages and related costs
and attorney’s fees. Disclosures made by Citibank during pre-
trial discovery indicated its belief that the total amount of the
damages suffered was approximately US$459 million. In
February 2005, pursuant to a stipulation with III, Citibank dis-
missed with prejudice its claims related to the alleged violation
of the federal securities laws and fraud, and withdrew its suit
in the United States District Court. Plaintiff then re-filed its
complaint against III in the New York Supreme Court for New
York County alleging breach of contract and contractual
indemnity. According to the complaint re-filed by Citibank,
Citibank is alleging that Copelco’s stockholder’s equity was
overstated by approximately US$159 million and it continues
to seek an unspecified amount of compensatory damages
and related costs and attorney’s fees as noted above.
III is defending this action vigorously and maintains that it
has no liability in this matter. However, due to the inherent
uncertainty of litigation, it is not possible to predict the ultimate
outcome of this litigation. Accordingly, there can be no assur-
ance that III will prevail in the action or that the Company’s
consolidated financial position may not be materially adversely
affected by such action. 
(12) Risks Associated with Compliance
Risks Related to Laws and Regulations
ITOCHU is subject to a number of diverse laws and regula-
tions both domestically and overseas due to the vast array
of products and services ITOCHU provides. To be specific,
ITOCHU is required to adhere to laws and regulations such
as the laws for each industry, all laws pertaining to trade
such as foreign exchange control laws, antitrust laws, intel-
lectual property laws, waste disposal laws and the laws of
each country in which ITOCHU conducts business over-
seas. ITOCHU is aware that the observance of laws and
regulations is a serious obligation on the part of the
Company and ITOCHU has committed every effort into the
observance of these laws and regulations through the com-
pliance program that ITOCHU has created. Despite this,
ITOCHU cannot deny that additional regulations or abrupt
changes in regulations by legislative, judicial, and regulatory
bodies are a possibility both domestically and overseas.
Also there are possibilities of major change in laws and reg-
ulation by political/economical changes. If ITOCHU infringe
on such laws and regulations, then ITOCHU could experi-
ence a restriction of business activities, legal sanctions, and
a consequent loss of public trust. This could exert a serious,
adverse influence on the financial position and results of
operations of ITOCHU.
Risks Related to the Environment
ITOCHU has designated global environmental issues as one
of the most important elements of its management policy.
ITOCHU is actively working on environmental issues desig-
nated by ITOCHU’s environmental policy to deal with the
risk of infringement of laws and regulations pertaining to the
environment by each business, the destruction of the nat-
ural environment by natural resource development, real
estate development and goods and service. Despite these
efforts, ITOCHU cannot guarantee that the Group’s busi-
ness activities will not affect the world environment, and
ITOCHU cannot completely avoid the possibility that the
opposition of environmental protection groups will impede
the business growth. Should such events occur, the
ITOCHU could suffer the loss of public trust and could suffer
serious adverse effects to the financial position and results
of operations of ITOCHU.
87
