cross-company point of view to Division Company presidents in order to exploit
fully ITOCHU’s comprehensive strengths, maximize profit, and integrate and opti-
mize our businesses policies as a whole. The Chief Administrative Officer oversees
all administrative divisions and provides overall administrative coordination for indi-
vidual divisions to ensure smooth and sophisticated administrative operations in
support of ITOCHU’s overall management policy and achievement of targets.
Chief Administration Officer
The Chief Administrative
Officer assumes responsibility
for safeguarding the goals in
relation to solid management
under Frontier-2006, namely to
improve the financial position
and enhance risk manage-
ment, reinforce internal con-
trols and pursue corporate
social responsibility, and
establish highly transparent
corporate governance. 
We instituted the following
organizational changes in April
2005 to strengthen ITOCHU’s
administrative functions.
• Enhance Risk Management
To enhance risk management, we consolidated the Risk
Management Division and the Affiliate Administration
Division to create the Affiliate Administration & Risk
Management Division. We will continue to enhance risk
management on a consolidated basis by utilizing a “risk
map,” which helps to evaluate and fully control risks
based on an assessment of their importance and fre-
quency of occurrence.
• Pursue Corporate Social Responsibility
To pursue corporate social responsibility, we established
the CSR & Compliance Division to consolidate all func-
tions pertaining to corporate social responsibility and
compliance. We also created the CSR Promotion Office
within the division and will, henceforth, be even more
active in promoting corporate social responsibility. In
addition, we changed the name of the Business Ethics
and Compliance Committee to the CSR Compliance
Committee, making it clear that the new committee’s
principal mission is to promote corporate social responsi-
bility. The CSR Compliance Committee and the CSR &
Compliance Division are considering publishing a CSR
report in the near future to improve our level of accounta-
bility to ITOCHU’s stakeholders. 
• Establish Highly Transparent Corporate
Governance
To ensure highly transparent corporate governance, we
have established a Disclosure Committee for which the
CFO Office will serve as the administrative bureau. This
committee will work to ensure that internal controls are
established for the ITOCHU Group by examining internal
control policies and disclosure measures for financial
reports, and verifying the accuracy of financial state-
ments.
Sumitaka Fujita
Chief Administration Officer,
Chief Financial Officer,
Chief Compliance Officer
41
