The Company and its subsidiaries were contingently liable in
the amounts of ¥6,293 million ($59 million) and ¥10,999 million
for the total trade notes receivable endorsed to suppliers in
the settlement of accounts payable and discounted trade
notes receivable on a recourse basis with banks at March 31,
2005 and 2004, respectively. The amounts of export bills of
exchange discounted with banks in the ordinary course of
business were ¥72,317 million ($673 million) and ¥53,940 mil-
lion at March 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
In July 2001, Citibank, N.A. and Citibank Canada, a wholly-
owned subsidiary of Citibank, N.A. (together, “Citibank”), filed
a complaint against ITOCHU International Inc. and III Holding
Inc. (previously named Copelco Financial Services Group,
Inc.), a wholly owned subsidiary of  ITOCHU International Inc.
(collectively, “III”), in the United States District Court for the
Southern District of New York. Citibank was alleging violation
of the federal securities laws, fraud and breach of contract
and related claims arising in connection with Citibank’s acqui-
sition of all the common stock of Copelco Capital. Inc.
(“Copelco”), a former wholly-owned subsidiary of III Holding
Inc., for a purchase price of approximately U.S.$666 million in
May 2000. More specifically, Citibank was alleging that
Citibank relied on the accuracy of Copelco’s financial state-
ments and other documents and statements provided and
given by III to Citibank and that such financial statements had
not been prepared in compliance with U.S. GAAP and/or in
accordance with Copelco’s internal accounting rules and
practices in connection with, inter alia, accounting and collec-
23. Subsequent events
tion policies and procedures of lease receivables, the amount
of charge-off concerning delinquent lease receivables, loss
reserve methodology, earnings from general ledger accounts
and reconciliation of investment accounts, based upon which
Citibank sought compensatory damages and related costs
and attorney’s fees. Disclosures made by Citibank during pre-
trial discovery indicated its belief that the total amount of the
damages suffered was approximately U.S.$459 million. In
February 2005, pursuant to a stipulation with III, Citibank dis-
missed with prejudice its claims related to the alleged violation
of the federal securities laws and fraud, and withdrew its suit
in the United States District Court. Plaintiff then re-filed its
complaint against III in the New York Supreme Court for New
York County alleging breach of contract and contractual
indemnity. According to the complaint re-filed by Citibank,
Citibank is alleging that Copelco’s stockholder’s equity was
overstated by approximately U.S.$159 million and it continues
to seek an unspecified amount of compensatory damages
and related costs and attorney’s fees as noted above.
III is defending this action vigorously and maintains that it has
no liability in this matter. However, due to the inherent uncer-
tainty of litigation, it is not possible to predict the ultimate out-
come of this litigation. Accordingly, there can be no assurance
that III will prevail in the action or that the Company’s consoli-
dated financial position may not be materially adversely
affected by such action. 
At the ordinary general meeting of shareholders held on June
29, 2005, the Company was authorized to pay a cash divi-
dend of ¥7 ($0.07) per share, or a total of ¥11,085 million
($103 million) to shareholders of record on March 31, 2005.
The Company was also authorized to amend the Articles of
Incorporation to provide that the Company could purchase
outstanding shares of its own common stock upon resolution
of the Board of Directors.
126
