Overseas Development of Our FamilyMart Business—“Aiming at 20,000 Stores Worldwide by February 2009”
JAPAN
6,373
SOUTH KOREA
2,859
CHINA
52
TAIWAN
1,706
THAILAND
515
THE U.S.
*Opened in July 2005
Number of stores as of March 2005 (except for the U.S.)
way, we capture consumer needs, which
are applied to subsequent product devel-
opment  and  materials  procurement,  cre-
ating a valuable information reflow.
In  the  midstream  area,  food  whole-
salers belonging to our Group have built
the  industry’s  top-class  distribution  net-
work.  This  network  accommodates  all
temperature ranges, improving the struc-
ture and efficiency of FamilyMart’s pro-
curement system. Not only do we deliver
products efficiently to FamilyMart stores
nationwide, but also we utilize our well-
organized  operation  in  the  procurement
of materials for their deli and other pre-
pared foods. We will further enhance our
midstream distribution function to maxi-
mize our comprehensive strengths.
In the upstream area, we have devel-
oped  a  system  that  widely  distributes
safe and competitive foodstuffs, such as
grains, edible oils and fats, and agricul-
tural and livestock food products, which
are  supplied  by  our  domestic  and  over-
seas  group  companies  and  other  supply
bases. 
2. Taking Advantage of Our
Comprehensive Lateral Strengths to
Meet Diversified Consumer Needs
as a Group
In addition to providing support in mer-
chandising  centered  on  food,  we  also
introduce  new  products  and  services  by
taking advantage of FamilyMart’s infor-
mation  and  distribution  infrastructure,
which  we  have  jointly  established.  By
making  use  of  our  Group’s  comprehen-
sive  lateral  strengths,  we  aim  to  added
more value to FamilyMart stores.
In  cooperation  with  our  Financial
Services  Division,  FamilyMart  created
the  first  credit  card  in  the  convenience
store  industry  in  2002.  Also  in  2002,
the  multimedia  terminal  FamiPort  was
installed  by  ITOCHU  TECHNO-SCI-
ENCE  Corporation.  These  terminals
provide  a  wide  range  of  services.
Customers  can  make  payments  for
goods and services they ordered by way
of  Internet  shopping,  and  tickets  for
travel  and  recreation.  FamilyMart  has
also launched an Internet shopping site
“famima.com”  in  collaboration  with
our  IT  &  Business  Solutions  Division.
Not only media contents such as books,
CDs, and DVDs, but also a wide range
of  other  products  including  fashion
products,  sports-related  items,  and
character  goods  can  be  purchased
through  this  site  and  be  picked  up  at  a
FamilyMart store.
ment.  Our  vertical  and  horizontal
strengths,  as  well  as  global  business
development capabilities, have great sig-
nificance in this area as well. 
In  China,  where  the  first  FamilyMart
branch was formally opened in Shanghai
in  July  2004,  we  have  made  a  strategic
alliance with the country’s top food busi-
ness  group  Ting  Hsin  International
Group  to  speed  up  the  opening  of  addi-
tional  stores  in  the  future.  FamilyMart
plans to establish 2,000 stores throughout
China  by  February  2009.  We  plan  to
make  further  use  of  our  supply  chain
(vertical  strengths),  the  establishment  of
which  we  are  also  promoting  in  China,
which  links  upstream  and  downstream
operations. In addition, we also expect to
utilize  our  various  comprehensive  sup-
port  functions  (lateral  strengths)  offered
by each Division Company there.  
The  first  FamilyMart  in  the  U.S.  will
be opened in July 2005, and the target is
to establish 200 stores there by February
2009. We will provide powerful support
in  FamilyMart’s  business  expansion  by
utilizing our distribution network and the
know-how that we have thus far cultivat-
ed in Japan.
3. Accelerating Advancements
Overseas to Expand Our Business
Foundation 
FamilyMart  strives  to  expand  profits
through  aggressive  overseas  develop-
Further, ITOCHU will cooperate with
FamilyMart in its aim to establish 20,000
stores worldwide by February 2009, main-
ly in the Pan Pacific area of Japan, Taiwan,
Thailand, South Korea, China, and the U.S. 
19
