CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
ITOCHU proactively works to reinforce corporate
permitting directors and executive officers to carry out
governance, recognizing it as one of the most
each of their roles more effectively. 
important issues for management. Our basic policy
We have established a compensation system for direc-
is to establish a highly transparent management
tors and executive officers that is tied to business per-
system that benefits stakeholders, including stock-
formance and evaluates how well they have fulfilled their
holders, through the following approaches:
required functions. In addition, we will bring more clarity
1. Enhance transparency in decision-making
to the tie between performance and directors’ compensa-
processes
tion by discontinuing the directors’ retirement and sever-
2. Strengthen corporate information disclosure and
ance system after the regular general meeting of stock-
management accountability
holders in 2005. 
3. Thoroughly manage risk, which includes compli-
We also have an Advisory Board composed of outside
ance with laws and regulations
experts from various fields. The Board’s independence
4. Maintain business ethics through the strict appli-
allows us to obtain useful opinions on management from
cation of rewards and punishments
an objective point of view.  
Instead of creating a company with a Committees
Management System
System, we will continue to reinforce our corporate gover-
ITOCHU has established a management system to facili-
nance system by enhancing the current corporate audi-
tate the work of the Board of Directors and its members.
tors system, which is predicated on management supervi-
The system maintains the number of Board members at a
sion by the Board of Corporate Auditors, an organization
level that allows swift decision-making. It also separates
that is independent of the Board of Directors, because we
business execution from management supervisory func-
believe it is well suited to ensuring adequate independent
tions by introducing the executive officer position, thus
monitoring. 
Current ITOCHU’s Corporate Governance System
Election and dismissal
Board of Directors
Election and supervise
President and C.E.O.
Headquarters 
Management Committee
Internal Committees
General Meeting of Stockholders
Election and dismissal
12 Directors
Monitoring
Board of Corporate Auditors
5 Corporate Auditors
Including 2 Outside Corporate Auditors
Monitoring
Election and dismissal
Independent External Auditors
Division Companies
Financial audit
44
