NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ITOCHU Corporation and Subsidiaries
1. Nature of Operations
ITOCHU Corporation (the “Company”) is a “sogo shosha” or
general trading company. The Company and its subsidiaries
purchase, distribute and market a wide variety of commodities
including raw materials, capital goods and consumer goods,
whether for Japanese domestic trade, trade between Japan
and other nations or trade between third-party nations.
The Company and its subsidiaries not only operate worldwide
through trading in various commodities but also provide various
services, such as financing arrangements for customers and
suppliers, planning and coordinating industrial projects, func-
tioning as an organizer and gathering extensive information. In
addition, the Company and its subsidiaries operate in a wide
range of business activities — developing market potential, pro-
viding services for logistics and transportation and for informa-
tion and communications, engaging in construction, developing
resources, investing in the growing high-technology and multi-
media fields and promoting environmental protection.
2. Basis of Financial Statements and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
(1) Basis of Financial Statements
The accompanying consolidated financial statements are
stated in Japanese yen, the currency of the country in which
the Company is incorporated and principally operates. The
translation of Japanese yen amounts into U.S. dollar amounts
for the year ended March 31, 2005 is included solely for the
convenience of readers outside Japan and has been made at
the rate of ¥107.39=U.S.$1 (the official rate as of March 31,
2005 announced by The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, Ltd.). The
translation should not be construed as a representation that
the Japanese yen amounts could be converted into U.S. dol-
lars at the above or any other rate.
The accompanying consolidated financial statements have
been prepared in accordance with accounting principles gen-
erally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”).
Because the Company and its subsidiaries maintain their
records and prepare their financial statements in accordance
with accounting principles prevailing in the countries of incor-
poration, all necessary adjustments have been made to con-
form to U.S. GAAP. The major adjustments include those
relating to the valuation of certain investment securities,
deferred gains on sales of property, pension costs, amortiza-
tion of intangible assets and goodwill and derivative instru-
ments and hedging activities.
(2) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
a. Basis of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
the Company and its directly or indirectly majority-owned
domestic and foreign subsidiaries.
In accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board
(“FASB”) Interpretation (“FIN”) 46 “Consolidation of Variable
Interest Entities” (revised December 2003) (“FIN 46R”), which
defines those entities whose equity has specified characteris-
tics as variable interest entities, the Company and its sub-
sidiaries consolidate variable interest entities, where it is
concluded that they are primary beneficiaries and will absorb a
majority of the entity’s expected losses, receive a majority of
the entity’s expected residual returns, or both.
The accounts of the subsidiaries are included on the basis
of their respective fiscal periods which end primarily on March
31 or within three months prior to March 31. Significant trans-
actions occurring between the subsidiaries’ fiscal year-ends (if
not March 31) and March 31 are properly adjusted in the con-
solidated financial statements.
The determination of whether an entity is recognized as a
consolidated subsidiary is based on the Company’s owner-
ship of voting shares including consideration of any shares
contributed to the pension trusts. Although the Company
retains the rights to vote the contributed shares, the rights to
dispose of such shares are executed by the trustee. The
equity in contributed shares to the pension trust is included in
minority interests in the consolidated financial statements.
b. Foreign currency translation
Foreign currency financial statements have been translated in
accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(“SFAS”) 52, “Foreign Currency Translation.” Pursuant to this
statement, the assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries and
associated companies are translated into Japanese yen at the
respective year-end exchange rates. All income and expense
accounts are translated at average rates of exchange. The
resulting foreign currency translation adjustments, net of tax,
are included in “Accumulated other comprehensive income
(loss).” Foreign currency receivables and payables are trans-
lated into Japanese yen at year-end exchange rates and the
resulting foreign exchange gains and losses are recognized
and included in “Other-net” in the consolidated statements of
operations.
c. Cash Equivalents
For the purpose of the consolidated statements of cash flows,
the Company and its subsidiaries define cash equivalents as
short-term (original maturities of three months or less), highly
liquid investments which are readily convertible to cash and
have insignificant risk of changes in value, including short-term
time deposits.
d. Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost, determined princi-
pally by the specific identification method, or market.
e. Marketable Securities and Other Investments
In accordance with SFAS 115, “Accounting for Certain
Investments in Debt and Equity Securities,” the Company and
its subsidiaries classify certain investments included in
“Marketable securities” and “Other investments” by the ability
and intent as held-to-maturity, trading or available-for-sale
securities, and report held-to-maturity securities at amortized
cost, trading securities at fair value with unrealized holding
gains and losses included in earnings, and available-for-sale
securities at fair value with unrealized holding gains and losses
95
