Hiroyuki Naka
Member of the Board, 
Executive Officer, 
CSO; 
General Manager, Group CEO Office
CSO INTERVIEW
We view changes in the business environment as opportunities 
to utilize our strategy of both “offense” and “defense” to 
 maximize expected value of our stakeholders.
   Please explain the current business environ-
ment surrounding ITOCHU and the initial plan 
for FYE 2024.
   Although we are in a period of a highly uncertain 
and unpredictable business environment, our 
plan reflects ITOCHU’s stable earnings founda-
tion that is highly resilient to economic volatility.
Looking back on the business environment over the last 
few years, the COVID-19 pandemic caused chaos in the 
global economy, and the situation has remained extremely 
uncertain and unpredictable due to the prolonged Russian 
invasion of Ukraine. This has been accompanied by break-
downs in supply chains and soaring prices of resources. 
High raw material costs that were spurred by these soar-
ing resource prices have led to inflation, and in turn interest 
rate hikes to curb inflation have brought about dramatic 
yen depreciation, creating a situation where multiple vari-
ables have compounded each other. In addition, real GDP 
growth was negative in 2020 during the COVID-19 pan-
demic, but made a huge rebound in 2021. Furthermore, 
developed, emerging, and developing countries main-
tained a decent level of growth in 2022 as well. In April, 
just before ITOCHU announced the FYE 2024 
Management Plan, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) 
predicted that economic recovery will be polarized in 2023 
among developed countries, especially with the United 
States and the Eurozone expected to experience signifi-
cant deceleration, while emerging and developing coun-
tries, especially China and India, are expected to see solid 
42
 Page 74 PEST Analysis 
economic recoveries. (
(Macroenvironmental Factors through 2030))
  The outlook for the Japanese economy is expected to 
gradually strengthen in 2023. In addition to full-scale 
“revenge spending” expected to follow the lifting of COVID-
19 pandemic-related restrictions, there will also be positive 
effects from robust inbound travel demand, the continuation 
of monetary easing measures that will support corporate 
funding and capital expenditure expansion, rising wages, 
and the inflation control measures of the government.
  Amid this business environment, the initial plan for FYE 
2024 is based on conservative assumptions for the grad-
ual normalization of resource prices and foreign exchange 
rates. The plan also incorporates profit growth in the non-
resource sector, which is our Company’s strength, and a 
certain level of returns from growth investments. Our initial 
plan for core profit, which demonstrates our Company’s 
ability to generate profits, is ¥800.0 billion, and if achieved 
will be a record high for the third consecutive year. 
Consolidated net profit in the initial plan is ¥780.0 billion, 
net of extraordinary gains of ¥30.0 billion, a loss buffer of 
¥50.0 billion, which is more conservative than usual, and 
core profit. Amid the gradual stabilization of resource 
prices, the plan is suitable for a profit level of ¥800.0 billion 
and it indicates that ITOCHU’s stable earnings generating 
 Page 
capability is highly resilient to economic volatility. (
48 FYE 2024 Management Plan)
  Our business performance in FYE 2024 is already off to 
a very strong start given that earnings from our businesses 
are weighted more heavily toward the second half of the 
fiscal year. As CSO, I will work to firmly achieve our initial 
plan and continuously enhance our corporate value from 
both the financial and non-financial aspects by implement-
ing preemptive strategies and countermeasures, while at 
the same time continuing to pay close attention to rapid 
changes in our business environment.
Chinese Government maintains its policy of strengthening 
state-owned enterprises, and we have determined that 
CITIC’s business foundation is robust. Therefore, we 
expect it to maintain solid performance in FYE 2024 that is 
similar to that seen in FYE 2023.
   What are the points you consider important 
when making growth investments, and what 
are the FYE 2024 forecasts for CITIC’s 
performance?
   For growth investments, we endeavor to uphold 
“the Four Lessons for Investments,” and expect 
CITIC’s performance to be stable.
We position FYE 2024 as a year in which we will shift the 
focus of our growth investments with an eye to the next 
stage of growth beyond the ¥800.0 billion profit level. 
ITOCHU’s exposure to the non-resource sector is around 
80% to 90%, and we expect to maintain this level of expo-
sure going forward. Stakeholders, especially investors, 
sometimes point out that we should place more focus on 
the non-resource sector, which is our strength. However, 
we believe that amid the aforementioned business environ-
ment, a decentralized portfolio leads to lower risk for our 
overall business. Furthermore, we gain valuable insights 
from directly conducting the resource sector business 
which we can leverage in our non-resource sector busi-
ness. I believe our “comprehensive strength” as a general 
trading company is a factor contributing to our “conglom-
erate premium.”
  When making growth investments, ITOCHU endeavors 
to uphold “the Four Lessons for Investments” that I 
explained in detail in my interview last year. These lessons 
are designed to prevent, 1. Overpaying for investments; 
2. Investments aimed at seizing profit from investees; 
3. Overdependence on and overconfidence in partners; 
and 4. Lack of hands-on management. In particular, we 
always take essential steps to prevent overpaying for 
acquisitions by conducting careful due diligence and analy-
ses of business plans before investing, securing effective 
exit strategies, and confirming the management structure 
of target companies. After making the investment, we 
make sure to avoid taking a blanket approach to all invest-
ments, and manage each investment differently. It is very 
important that those responsible for the investments visit 
the front lines of these investments themselves and quickly 
implement measures to resolve issues in accordance 
with the real time conditions observed on these front lines. 
(
  CITIC’s performance remained extremely robust, setting 
record highs for the eighth consecutive year after ITOCHU 
invested in it in 2015. CITIC and its subsidiary CITIC Bank 
have made a solid start in FYE 2024 as well. We need to 
pay attention to factors such as U.S.–China trade friction, 
the Taiwan situation, downward pressure on the Chinese 
economy, financial instability originating from the United 
States, and low share price valuations. However, the 
 Page 60 The Four Lessons for Investments)
   Please explain the background behind newly 
establishing the Group CEO Office.
   We were determined to upgrade the organization 
in order to be able to quickly and accurately 
respond to changes in the business environment 
without being bound by existing frameworks.
The Group CEO Office, which was launched in April 2023, 
is directly supervised by our Chairman & CEO, and is a 
 virtual organization headed by the CSO, myself. Also, 
the general managers of the Corporate Planning & 
Administration, Human Resources & General Affairs, and 
Global Risk Management divisions, as well as the manager 
of the CRE Department*, concurrently oversee this organi-
zation and invite the officers and employees required for 
each project to participate in this organization. To further 
strengthen our Group management, the Group CEO Office 
selects and trains management personnel, drafts plans to 
appropriately allocate assets, business expenses, and per-
sonnel within our Group, and promotes Groupwide ratio-
nalization measures. The Group CEO Office is also in 
charge of strengthening Group engagement through eval-
uations and awards. Group companies are essential for us 
to enhance consolidated management, but the presidents 
of Group companies are typically individuals who have 
achieved success at ITOCHU, and tend to be senior to 
ITOCHU’s Division Company Presidents, who in some 
cases used to be their bosses. Therefore, Division 
Company Presidents sometimes feel hesitant to reach out 
to the presidents of Group companies, and Group com-
pany presidents may also find it difficult to consult with 
former subordinates. To prevent these kinds of situations, 
the Group CEO Office maintains a policy to support both 
ITOCHU’s Division Companies and Group companies 
based on the Chairman & CEO’s direct instructions.
  Along with this reorganization, we placed The 8th 
Company, which was established in July 2019, under the 
supervision of the Group CEO Office. Although there is no 
change in the role of The 8th Company, the Chairman & 
CEO will become more directly than ever involved with 
guiding and supervising Group companies, and will 
strengthen relationships between Group companies and 
resolve issues such as conflicts of interest and unequal 
treatment. The effective functioning of the huge supply 
chain is very important for the convenience store business, 
and I will continue to leverage our comprehensive strength 
as a general trading company by ensuring our Group com-
panies extend further support to FamilyMart, and by allow-
ing the entire Group to move faster in the same direction.
*  CRE Department: A dedicated department for the Jingu Gaien District 
Urban Redevelopment Project relating to our Tokyo Headquarters.
43
