Special Feature 2: Polishing Our Existing Business and New Steppingstones
Evolution of the Value Chain through Collaboration between CTC 
and Our Group of Digital Businesses
There has been increasing of needs for transforming companies’ business model by using digital technologies to follow 
changes of social environment accelerated mainly by the COVID-19 pandemic. Promoting digital transformation (DX), which 
has been essential for business model transformation, in addition to conventionally developing systems to meet customer’s 
demand, it requires high-value-added solution proposal capabilities throughout the value chain, based on a market-oriented 
perspective, such as consulting and data analysis to clarify frontline issues in accordance with customers’ situation. 
ITOCHU has capital and business alliances with multiple digital businesses which have a wide range of DX-related 
capabilities. By accelerating strengthening of the collaboration between CTC and those digital businesses, we are 
expanding our value chain in digital fields and identifying society’s DX needs. Through such initiatives, we will diligently 
work to further enhance our earnings base.
Polishing CTC and Building a Digital Value Chain
The ICT & Financial Business Company is a segment that 
has become a distinctive and major strength of ITOCHU. 
CTC is one of the major system integrators (SI) in Japan, 
and our Group company which plays a core role in busi-
ness of the ICT & Financial Business Company. To date, 
CTC has been polishing its businesses and accumulated 
advanced technological expertise by system develop-
ments using the latest technologies and solutions culti-
vated through ITOCHU’s investments in venture capital 
funds, including investments in companies operating in 
Silicon Valley. As a result, CTC has a robust customer base 
of over 10,000 companies, mainly telecommunication car-
riers and other major companies. By leveraging its robust 
customer base, CTC provides a wide range of services 
encompassing the design and development capabilities for 
high-level IT infrastructure and systems for customers, as 
well as the sale and maintenance of IT-related products. 
Furthermore, CTC also establishes stable earnings base 
unlike its competitors.
In line with recent structural changes, including rising 
demand for DX technologies in business strategy areas 
exceeding conventional internal systems and the shift 
toward cloud services for IT infrastructure, the functions 
that customers seek are becoming more diverse and com-
plex, going beyond standard system design and develop-
ment. When promoting DX technologies that are focused 
on business model transformation, we first provide con-
sulting to explore issues that customers face, and conduct 
a cost-benefit analysis of DX. We then propose solutions 
based on customer data analysis. Next, we begin system 
CTC’s Strengths (As of April 2023)
development based on our findings. To comprehensively 
address customers’ needs by leveraging CTC’s accumu-
lated strengths, ITOCHU will strengthen its organization to 
be able to provide a wide range of functions from 
upstream to downstream, in part through our capital and 
business alliances with our group of digital businesses.
Creating Added Value through Collaborations 
between CTC and Our Group of Digital 
Businesses
CTC and our digital businesses are enhancing their col-
laborations by jointly undertaking DX projects that intro-
duce systems and solve issues faced by ITOCHU and its 
Group companies. One example of these collaborative 
efforts is an initiative for AI automated ordering systems 
at NIPPON ACCESS, INC. (NIPPON ACCESS) which cal-
culates the recommended order volume of 1,500 prod-
ucts destined for FamilyMart using AI technologies to 
analyze operational data from FamilyMart and NIPPON 
ACCESS. This system was built through an alliance 
between CTC and BrainPad Inc., which has strengths in 
data analysis. Utilizing AI automated ordering systems is 
expected to reduce food losses, enhance efficiency of 
ordering operations at distribution centers of NIPPON 
ACCESS, and optimize inventory control. 
  Furthermore, in May 2023, BrainPad Inc., SIGMAXYZ 
Inc., and CTC jointly launched the “Generative AI 
Research Lab” project. This initiative harnesses genera-
tive AI technologies like ChatGPT to drive corporate pro-
cess transformation and facilitate the development of 
innovative business opportunities. In July 2023, we 
40 years
R&D track record in 
Silicon Valley
Global partners
Customers 
More than
300
companies
Approx.
10,000
companies
Customer satisfaction
89%
Number of 
Engineers
7,234
introduced a secure environment allowing our employees 
to leverage ChatGPT while ensuring data confidentiality. 
Already, this capability has been adopted by a user base 
exceeding 1,000 employees. Looking ahead, we have 
plans to not only integrate this technology with our oper-
ational systems and expand its usage within our Group 
but also to embark on new initiatives utilizing generative 
AI. These include proposing optimal products and ser-
vices tailored to customer attributes in the consumer 
sector. The promotion of DX on the front lines of Group 
companies in the consumer sector, which is a strength 
of ITOCHU, has become a rich testing ground for digital 
businesses, contributed to the accumulation of expertise 
and know-how, and strengthened alliance with CTC. 
ITOCHU, CTC, and other participants in our group of 
 digital businesses are promoting collaboration in terms of 
human resources through the mutual dispatch of about 
50 personnel in total, and working to construct a more 
robust DX promotion system.
Deepening and Evolution of the Digital Value 
Chain
In the consumer sector, which is a strength of ITOCHU, 
we urgently need to strengthen our ability to make pro-
posals based on analysis of the massive amount of data 
gained from customer contact points to uncover latent 
customer needs, and to be able to provide high-value-
added products and services. Recognizing the need for 
our corporate Group to swiftly and accurately respond to 
such customer needs, we announced the tender offer bid 
for CTC in August 2023. CTC and our digital businesses 
will leverage the expertise and know-how gained within 
our Group related to DX applications in the consumer 
sector, and then apply and develop for all customers, 
thereby further expanding our profits. Moreover, CTC and 
our digital businesses are not restricted to only the con-
sumer sector. We aim to strengthen our business founda-
tions a step further by leveraging ITOCHU’s expansive 
domestic and international network to cultivate the latent 
DX needs of our highly diverse range of customers.
Previous
Strategic 
consulting
Customer 
 experience 
design (CX*1)
Digital design 
(UI/UX*2)
Business and  
IT consulting / 
PMO*3
Application 
development / 
Systems 
development
Operation 
 maintenance 
BPO*4
Data analysis
SI project initiation
DX project initiation
Current
Strategic 
consulting
Customer 
 experience 
design (CX*1)
Digital design 
(UI/UX*2)
Business and  
IT consulting / 
PMO*3
Application 
development / 
Systems 
development
Operation 
 maintenance 
BPO*4
Data analysis
Our Group of 
Digital 
Businesses
Management and 
IT consulting
Digital consulting
GCP integration*5
Reports and BI 
solutions*6
BPO*4
Data analysis
*1 Customer Experience
*2 User Interface / User Experience
*3 Project Management Office
*4 Business Process Outsourcing: Outsourcing of some business processes, from planning and designing to operation
*5 GCP integration: Provide a full range of services from system development to operation and maintenance based on Google Cloud
*6 BI solutions: Problem-solving through the use of Business-Intelligence tools
70
71
 
 
