CEO MESSAGE
Preparations and Strategies
The final game of the World Baseball Classic tournament 
held in the United States on March 21, 2023 was a historic 
match between Japan and the United States. I decided 
to watch the game with our employees, maintaining the 
balance with our work, and set up a public viewing space 
to watch the game. Due in part to the introduction of our 
“Morning-Focused Working System,” over 400 employees 
packed into the public viewing space by 8:30 a.m. after the 
game started, and we were able to collectively share the 
moment of victory. Just like the Japan national baseball 
team, ITOCHU in FYE 2023 came together as one, and 
focused on turning our words into results.
  Since I became President in FYE 2011, ITOCHU’s con-
solidated net profit has expanded from ¥300.0 billion to 
¥400.0 billion, and then on to ¥500.0 billion. Since then, we 
have continued to achieve significant growth and steadily 
ramp up the stage of our earnings growth. In FYE 2022, 
which was the first year of our medium-term management 
plan “Brand-new Deal 2023,” we surpassed the high hurdle 
for consolidated net profit of ¥800.0 billion and maintained 
¥800.0 billion for the second consecutive year in FYE 2023.
  As for our business results in FYE 2023, we benefited 
somewhat from the persistently and historically high natu-
ral resource prices despite our smaller exposure to the 
resource business compared to the general trading com-
panies associated with the former zaibatsu industrial 
Consistent Management
I would like to touch on a story of a person I highly respect, 
the Founder of KYOCERA Corporation (KYOCERA)—the 
late Kazuo Inamori, who is widely accepted to be “the God 
of Management.” When one CEO visited Founder Inamori, 
he assumed that the source of KYOCERA’s strength must 
be its special technology and questioned the Founder about 
this. To this Mr. Inamori responded, “There is not anything 
special.” The visiting CEO thought, “That cannot be true.” 
But when he toured one of KYOCERA’s factories, he found 
that the technology being used there appeared to be quite 
conventional, like those used at the factories of other com-
panies. Mr. Inamori explained to the bewildered CEO, “If you 
rely on special technologies, you may fall behind when an 
even better technology appears. KYOCERA’s strength is its 
front-line capabilities to achieve special results using normal 
technology.” Another person from the business community 
who heard this story told me that Mr. Inamori’s approach 
aligns with ITOCHU’s unique characteristics of not relying 
on special businesses, such as the resource business, but 
instead demonstrating the strengths of our front-line capa-
bilities honed through the “earn, cut, prevent” principles, 
and through the strategy by our market-oriented perspec-
tive that helps us achieve special results.
  There once was a period of time when ITOCHU also 
deliberately concentrated management resources into 
specific fields and, as a result, ended up weakening the 
groups, and the depreciation of the yen also contributed 
to our strong performance. However, a point I would like 
to draw attention to is that while the other general trading 
companies associated with the zaibatsu industrial groups 
expect profits to fall over 20% on average in FYE 2024, 
ITOCHU is the only general trading company with expec-
tations of low single-digit declines in profit of only 2.6%. 
In FYE 2024, which is the last year of “Brand-new Deal 
2023,” the unclear and unstable business environment is 
expected to persist, and the situation will remain very dif-
ficult to navigate. While keeping an eye on the eventual 
normalization of natural resource prices and foreign 
exchange rates, we intend to firmly maintain the ¥800.0 
billion consolidated net profit level while steadily preparing 
and implementing strategies for our next stage of earn-
 Page 42 CSO Interview)
ings growth. (
  However, I would like to emphasize that this does not 
mean we plan on doing anything special. I think the most 
important thing is to simply maintain a focus on our busi-
ness fundamentals, starting with steadfastly practicing our 
“earn, cut, prevent” principles, and stably conducting 
management as we have until now. Another important 
point is to simultaneously implement a management strat-
egy that elevates our entire business to ensure that we 
make progress toward the next stage of growth.
businesses outside of our core areas. The Machinery 
Company was one such business. With its business span-
ning a wide range of sectors, it was in urgent need of 
restructuring to ensure it maintained business with major 
client companies in the heavy industries sector. After 
becoming President, I issued directions to change our 
investment criteria so that they are not uniform across the 
entire Company, but rather are separated into smaller cate-
gories aligned with the characteristics of each business, 
given that the Machinery Company has many businesses 
that stably accumulate earnings through existing busi-
nesses. Positive results have gradually emerged since 
these changes have been implemented, and by boosting 
our confidence we have been able to build a strong foun-
dation necessary to grow many profitable businesses. In a 
little over a decade, consolidated net profit for the 
Machinery Company, which at the time was around  several 
billion yen, expanded to over ¥100.0 billion in FYE 2023.
I have learned that if we rely too heavily on specific 
businesses, failure in one of them could lead to vulnera-
bility in our entire Company. In line with this consideration, 
I have focused on consistent management that elevates 
our entire business and not just specific Division 
Companies. The reason I do not casually talk about spe-
cific businesses is that I adopt a management strategy 
that is mindful of all our businesses.
  As evidenced by the fact that approximately 90% of 
our Group companies are profitable, we not only focus 
on “additions” to steadily build up profits but also on 
“subtractions” to reduce loss-making companies. 
Although the Dole business and the North American 
meat-products-related business went into the red in FYE 
2023, we took swift actions including the adoption of 
provisions for vulnerable assets and implementing 
changes in management structure, and we expect a 
recovery in performance in FYE 2024 from these prior 
losses. The lesson we learned from this is that problems 
in business are similar to illnesses. In other words, what 
matters is how early you can detect problems, and how 
quickly you can begin to treat them. And we have taken 
steps to ensure that this lesson has been thoroughly 
shared and understood across the entire Company. We 
firmly believe that “preparedness” will ensure that we can 
avoid making similar mistakes, and thereby prevent major 
losses and further stabilize our business foundation.  
(
 Page 12 COO Message)
Understanding Peoples’ Emotions and Situations
After watching one of our TV commercials, a viewer sent 
an email to ITOCHU. The commercial depicted a widower 
talking to his deceased wife in front of the family’s 
Buddhist altar. The viewer said this situation was exactly 
the same as his own, and he said he wanted to see the 
commercial one more time. Unfortunately, the period for 
airing the commercial had ended, so he was no longer 
able to see it. To fulfill his wish, we sent him a DVD of the 
TV commercial, and he was very grateful to us.
  Another episode happened around April 2023 when 
we had a face-to-face meeting with Mr. Warren Buffett of 
Berkshire Hathaway Inc., who is a world-renowned inves-
tor and one of ITOCHU’s major shareholders. We figured 
he and his team must be exhausted from their long flight, 
so to allow them to relax a bit we skipped the detailed 
briefing on our business, of which they already had a 
solid understanding. We instead showed them a video 
highlighting our non-financial aspects, including scenes 
depicting our corporate culture.
  At first glance, these two stories may seem unrelated. 
But they are connected by our policy of understanding 
people’s emotions and situations, and providing them 
with what we believe they desire. This is the essence of 
the “market-oriented perspective” approach that we 
practice, and it does not require any stretch of logic.
  There is a limit to the added value that upstream 
resources and materials can generate. Even if a hit product 
is created, its popularity can be nearly impossible to sustain. 
On the other hand, profit margins downstream can become 
quite significant by identifying customers’ needs and adding 
value accordingly. Companies in the raw materials sector 
may have strengths in advanced technologies, but the com-
panies that sell products with added value using those 
materials are able to earn a much higher level of profit. In 
Meeting with Berkshire Hathaway Inc.
many such instances, it is safe to say that “profit opportuni-
ties are shifting downstream.” This policy is common among 
all our businesses, not just the ones that have contact 
points with consumers. By seizing business opportunities in 
the downstream, we are able to steadily evolve our business 
model. Take the aforementioned Machinery Company for 
instance. YANASE & CO., LTD. leveraged its unique sales 
network, customer base, and the added value of its after-
sales service, thereby serving as a good example of a 
Group company expanding its business results that simulta-
neously benefited upstream manufacturers as well. By figur-
ing out what it is that consumers want, and with each 
business strengthening their own brands, we can steadily 
create profit generating mechanisms over the long term.
  General trading companies associated with the former 
zaibatsu industrial groups expanded earnings through wide-
ranging businesses, mainly in upstream and midstream 
industrial sectors during the period of postwar recovery and 
high economic growth. During that time, ITOCHU accumu-
lated expertise and steadily built up its non-resource busi-
nesses, especially in the downstream daily consumables 
realm that is close to consumers. Currently, our competitors 
are actively working to shift to non-resource businesses. 
ITOCHU, of course, has an advantage in this area. The 
value chain of the ICT & Financial Business Company in 
particular is one of the main strengths of our businesses, 
unlike any of the other companies. If the tender offer bid 
(TOB) for CTC that was recently announced receives the 
trust of the stock market, it is not an exaggeration to say 
that this will be an investment that contributes to the further 
evolution of our business going forward. In particular, there 
is currently a pressing need to transform business models 
using digital technologies. Downstream companies are 
faced with an especially strong need to grow their business 
by analyzing and leveraging data gained from customer 
contact points to create new added value. To precisely 
meet diversifying customer needs in light of these trends, 
including responses to various SDGs-related issues, if the 
TOB is successful, we intend to further accelerate the 
implementation of strategies in the value chain of the ICT & 
Financial Business Company, and also use this to differenti-
 Page 70 Evolution of 
ate ITOCHU from our competitors. (
the Value Chain through Collaboration between CTC and 
Our Group of Digital Businesses)
