Restarting as a “Merchant”
In May 2023, all COVID-19 pandemic-related restrictions 
were lifted in Japan. Since becoming President & COO 
over two years ago, I have long awaited the time when I 
could go out to the front lines of our businesses, be who I 
am, and work energetically, with no need for masks or 
partitions. In FYE 2024, which is the last year of “Brand-
new Deal 2023,” I will strive as a “merchant” to continue 
to visit our front lines in Japan and overseas to steadily 
reinforce our businesses with our employees.
  The two years of COVID-19 pandemic-related restric-
tions implemented after I became President & COO 
allowed me to carefully study our entire business with a 
broader perspective from the confines of my desk. 
Furthermore, this experience enhanced my viewpoint as 
the “Chief Operating Officer” in charge of our overall 
management strategy. At the same time, I remained firmly 
attached to the front lines and continued to visit custom-
ers as much as possible, while taking every precaution to 
prevent infection. By meeting with clients directly, we are 
able to confirm what our customers are thinking and 
understand their challenges. These strong connections 
are an important reason why customers choose us as the 
first choice for their business partner. Also, I consider 
these strong bonds of trust as one of the most important 
aspects of cultivating new relationships and expanding 
business, and I believe they represent the unique 
strengths of our business as a “merchant” that cannot be 
replicated by using machines and AI at this moment.
  And of course, there are also many overseas custom-
ers who are indispensable to general trading companies. 
In FYE 2023, I took business trips to Thailand, where I 
had been the president of the overseas office, and to 
South Korea, which I know well from my time at the 
Energy & Chemicals Company. I was able to visit cus-
tomers I had been longing to meet. This year, I also trav-
eled to China and the United States, two places I had 
wanted to visit as soon as I became President & COO. 
In China, I was able to meet Chairman Zhu of CITIC for 
the first time, and we exchanged opinions about mutual 
growth strategies and possibilities for collaboration. I also 
learned that we have many common acquaintances 
among the senior management of Japanese companies, 
and through our discussions of these acquaintances I felt 
an even stronger connection with Chairman Zhu. I have 
been able to expand our business over the years by plac-
ing a high value upon our connections with people. Going 
Status of Decarbonization Efforts
forward, as a leader on the front lines, I will continue 
working to swiftly strengthen relationships with domestic 
and overseas customers, and to discover new business 
opportunities.
In addition, these overseas business trips were excel-
lent opportunities to better assess the real economic 
conditions of those countries. With still no end in sight to 
the effects of inflation, I felt that consumers abroad were 
really cutting back on their spending, even more than I 
had expected. I have often talked about the importance 
and necessity of obtaining vital information from the front 
lines, but in FYE 2023 there were businesses that unex-
pectedly underperformed because of misreading 
changes in the external environment. For example, the 
profitability of the Dole business had been declining due 
in part to a rapid rise in logistics costs caused by supply 
chain disruptions, but we expected an improvement in 
profitability by our attempts to pass on the higher costs 
to customers during peak demand periods, such as the 
Thanksgiving and Christmas holidays. However, in the 
United States, which is a major region of demand for the 
Dole business, consumer sentiment was already falling 
by the end of the year due to the surge in inflation. 
Consequently, consumers did not accept significant sales 
price increases at that time. What was the most problem-
atic about this incident was the fact that ITOCHU, who 
claims to have a “market-oriented perspective” and 
engage in “hands-on management,” left the marketing 
strategy to be decided by the locally hired manager 
despite the tough business environment, and was man-
aging the business indirectly and remotely from the dis-
tant Singapore headquarters without grasping the local 
consumption situation nor the pricing of competitors. 
One of our Company’s employees, who has professional 
knowledge, has already been dispatched to fill the mar-
keting manager position immediately, and is working to 
turn around the business in their main battlefield of the 
United States and restore its performance. In July 2023, I 
also visited the United States and confirmed with my own 
eyes that the reinforced “hands-on management” 
approach was making steady progress there. We will 
renew our commitment to strengthen front-line capabili-
ties to prevent employees from losing awareness of 
actual conditions on the front lines, supported by the 
rapid adoption of online tools.
Through meetings with domestic and overseas customers, 
I noticed a change in decarbonization trends. Although 
there were discussions about the long-term direction of 
decarbonization at the G7 Summit in Hiroshima in May 
2023, a specific roadmap for reducing GHG emissions has 
not yet been released. With the soaring prices of LNG and 
other energy sources since the Russian invasion of 
Ukraine, demand for thermal coal in Europe has surged 
COO MESSAGE
We will continue to build a solid foundation for 
 sustainable growth by assessing the drastic changes 
in the business environment at the front lines,  
and by breaking down the “Three Walls” to  
enhance our comprehensive strength.
Taking to heart the words I have long valued when conducting our business —“front lines” and “trust”— 
I will steadily and swiftly promote growth strategies that will contribute to the fortification of  
economic value and environmental / social value.
Keita Ishii
President & Chief Operating Officer
12
13
13
