Countermeasures for Business Risks and Other Risks
Due to the diverse and extensive nature of its businesses, the Group is exposed to a wide range of risks, including 
complex market-related risk, credit risk, and investment risk. As uncertainties that are highly difficult to predict are inherent 
with our businesses, they may have significant effects on the Group’s future financial position and business performance.
  Viewing risk control as an important management task, we have established basic policies, administrative systems, 
and methods for managing the risks that we face.
(1)  Risks Associated with Macroeconomic Factors  
(8) Risks Associated with Taxes
Risk Description
Risk Description
and Business Model 
(2) Market Risk
a) Foreign Exchange Rate Risk
b) Interest Rate Risk
c) Commodity Price Risk
d) Stock Price Risk
 Page 74
(9) Risks Associated with Significant Lawsuits
(10) Risks Associated with Laws and Regulations
(11) Risks Associated with Human Resources 
 Page 30
(12) Risks Associated with the Environment and Society 
 Page 76
(13) Risks Associated with Natural Disasters
(3) Investment Risk 
 Page 58
(14)  Risks Associated with Information Systems and  
(4) Risks Associated with Impairment Loss on Fixed Assets
Information Security
(5) Credit Risk
(6) Country Risk
(7) Risks Associated with Fund-raising 
 Page 54
For details, please refer to “Risk Information” in the Financial 
Information Report.
  https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/files/FIR2023E.pdf
RISK 6
Country Risk
The ITOCHU Group is exposed to various country risks, 
including unforeseen situations arising from the political, 
economic, and social conditions of the overseas coun-
tries and regions in which the Group conducts product 
transactions and business activities. Country risk also 
includes the potential for state expropriation of assets 
owned by investees or remittance suspension due to 
changes in various laws and regulations. To control the 
aforementioned risks, the Group takes appropriate risk 
mitigation measures for each project while using in-house 
country credit ratings to establish Groupwide guidelines 
on limits for each country, and to maintain overall  
exposure to each country at a level that is appropriate 
considering the Group’s financial strength.
(1) Russia-Related Business
As of March 31, 2023, ITOCHU’s exposure to Russia was 
¥35.0 billion. ITOCHU swiftly responded to the current 
Russia–Ukraine  situation and quickly implemented “prevent” 
measures in an effort to reduce future risks, such as con-
ducting reviews of assets owned in Russia. An affiliated 
company of ITOCHU is involved in aircraft leasing and 
other businesses in Russia, and had already recognized 
all relevant losses in FYE 2023 based on then-current sit-
uation. From the perspective of stably securing energy 
sources for Japan, the Company owns an interest in 
part of the Sakhalin-1 crude oil concession in Russia 
through a joint venture led by the Japanese Government. 
However, in light of recent developments, the Company 
has already implemented conservative provisions for 
future concerns related to this project. Regarding policies 
going forward, we will continue to collaborate closely with 
50
relevant parties such as the Japanese Government, 
which is the largest shareholder in the joint venture, and 
other partners.
(2) China-Related Business
As of March 31, 2023, exposure to China was ¥1,330.1 
billion. China’s current economic state suggests that 
consumer activity has returned to normal following the 
lifting of the zero-COVID policy. However, the recovery in 
consumer spending and real estate investment has 
been lower than forecast, due to delayed improvement 
in employment, income levels and real estate markets. 
Furthermore, the economy is expected to face the stag-
nation of exports due to a slowdown in the economies 
of Europe and the United States. 
ITOCHU has three types of China-related businesses: 
investment to CITIC, iron ore trading to China, and 
other trade and business investments. Given that it is a 
Chinese state-owned conglomerate, CITIC is expected 
to perform steadily thanks in part to the Chinese 
Government’s longstanding policy of strengthening 
state-owned enterprises. We are working to reduce risks 
related to iron ore trading to China, such as using price 
hedging when appropriate while paying close attention 
to the balance of supply and demand, including trends 
in the Chinese Government’s economic stimulus poli-
cies. As for other trade and business investments, the 
Company is mainly engaged in China’s domestic con-
sumer sector and is not engaged in businesses related 
to areas such as advanced technologies, which is cur-
rently the subject of concern over the effect of trade 
 friction between the United States and China.
RISK 14
Risks Associated with Information Systems and Information Security
The Company strives to establish security rules and 
enhance its security infrastructure. ITOCHU Group compa-
nies have long been required to meet the ITOCHU Group 
Information Security Minimum Standards as a minimum 
level of compliance. Furthermore, we have strengthened 
information security measures by establishing the 
ITOCHU Computer Emergency Readiness, Response & 
Recovery Team (ITCCERT). This permanent in-house 
cybersecurity team is mainly comprised of advanced 
cybersecurity analysts.
  Furthermore, in FYE 2023, in order to further 
strengthen cybersecurity, we introduced a new frame-
work that can judge the cybersecurity risks of each 
Group company based on the industry, business model, 
company size, etc., and determine the effective measures 
and operation systems based on the results. To support 
the operations of ITOCHU and each Group company’s 
sustainable and effective cybersecurity structure based 
on the framework, we established ITOCHU Cyber & 
Intelligence Inc. in February 2023 and transferred and 
expanded ITCCERT’s functions. This company has a 
highly specialized cybersecurity team that collects infor-
mation on the latest threats, analyzes risks, monitors 
security, and practices drills for simulated attacks on its 
systems. The company also provides cybersecurity pro-
grams that package together operations that require a 
wide range of advanced expertise. This com pany has 
already provided these programs to ITOCHU, seven 
overseas offices, and about 50 Group companies. We 
plan to expand the scope of these programs to cover 
around 200 Group companies by FYE 2026 in an ongo-
ing effort to strengthen the Group’s resilience in relation 
to information security.
Tomoyuki Takada
CDO·CIO*; 
Executive Advisory Officer for Corporate 
Communications Division
* Chief Digital & Information Officer
CDO·CIO COMMENT
   Strengthen the Business Foundation through 
Utilizing Specialized Personnel
I was newly named the CDO·CIO.
  The CDO·CIO supervises the IT & Digital Strategy Division, which is responsible for the 
Group’s information security measures and digitalization strategies, and the Research & 
Business Development Division, which is responsible for creating overseas policies and 
taking care of diplomatic relations with foreign dignitaries. These are two highly specialized 
fields that underpin the Company’s businesses. Given my career having served for a long 
time in positions related to corporate communication, I have been engaged in a wide range 
of fields, such as the Company’s business overall, and analysis and research of economic 
trends, politics, and the latest technologies. 
  After becoming the CDO·CIO and supervising such tasks as creating information security 
measures, digitalization strategies, and overseas policies, I have come to understand the 
true importance of specialized personnel who have a wealth of expertise related to the con-
stantly changing economic trends, political landscape, technologies, and other matters 
including the knowledge for the Company’s businesses overall. In order to be able to hire 
highly skilled personnel in these specialized fields, ITOCHU adopts special employment con-
ditions for each of companies, such as salary and commuting systems, which are different 
from ITOCHU. Under the IT & Digital Strategy Division, ITOCHU Cyber & Intelligence Inc. has 
a team of cybersecurity analysts who understand the Group’s diverse business fields sup-
port the cybersecurity operations of the Company and Group companies. In addition, the 
Research & Business Development Division has ITOCHU Research Institute Inc., which is 
the Group’s in-house think tank. Economists specializing in specific regions and industries 
provide information relating to macroeconomics and politics in Japan and major regions of 
the world, and analysis of industrial and business trends to support the Group. Going for-
ward, we will proactively train and cultivate the next generation of specialized personnel, for 
which demand is expected to grow. 
  Amid this uncertain business environment and in my role as the CDO·CIO, I will continue to 
accurately assess the rapidly changing social conditions with the support of our highly skilled 
personnel with expertise in specialized fields, and strengthen the Group’s business foundation.
51
