Strengths Accumulated as a Merchant
Accumulated Strength
Earning Power in the 
 Non-Resource Sector
Further Enhancing Earning Power in the  
Non-Resource Sector
 Page 65 Special Feature 2
ITOCHU’s business originated with textiles. In contrast with the general 
trading companies associated with the former zaibatsu industrial groups, 
the Company has weaker connections to the national government and 
companies in heavy industry. We, therefore, inevitably built up strengths 
in the non-resource sector, centered on clothing, food, and housing, 
where we have a wealth of expertise.
  “Brand-new Deal 2014” (FYE 2014–2015) was subtitled, “Aiming to be 
the No. 1 Trading Company in the Non-Resource Sector.” Under it, 
ITOCHU did, in fact, become the No. 1 general trading company in the 
non-resource sector. We attribute this success to our efforts to enhance 
the returns from major investments completed, improve the profitability of 
existing businesses, and revise investment criteria directing slightly lower 
than 80% of new investment to the non-resource sector. Following that, 
we continued to accumulate strengths in the non-resource sector and 
strengthen an earnings base that is diversified across many fields and 
more resilient to economic volatility, thereby enabling the stable genera-
tion of cash flows.
Accumulated Strength
Expanding Business into China
1972
In 1972, then-President Masakazu Echigo 
headed a mission to China and attempted 
to make an early start at cultivating the 
Chinese market. This led to our current 
business results and relationships of trust.
Accumulated Strength
Experience and Track 
Record in China and 
Other Parts of Asia
Laying a Strategic Foundation for the Future in Markets in 
China and Other Parts of Asia
ITOCHU was the first major general trading company to be accepted to 
restart trading between Japan and China. This early success in building a 
bridgehead in China has led to our current strength of “experience and 
track record in China and other parts of Asia.”
  Under “Brand-new Deal 2017” (FYE 2016–2018), we sought to 
enhance corporate value sustainably from a longer-term perspective. We 
worked with the CP Group to make a joint investment in CITIC, the larg-
est investment in ITOCHU’s history (approximately ¥600.0 billion), and 
placed a major strategic steppingstone in the world’s largest consumer 
markets of China and other parts of Asia. CITIC is the largest Chinese 
state-owned conglomerate, and the CP Group is the largest conglomer-
ate in Thailand, which has built up various businesses across China. 
Working with these two reputable partners, we strive to develop busi-
nesses which will lead to improving the earning power in our strong non-
resource sector.
Core Profit in the Non-Resource Sector
¥574.5 billion
(FYE 2023)
Although the shape of our business has 
significantly changed from its foundation, 
expanding from linen trading to the 
 development of a value chain that 
includes SDGs-related businesses, 
the Company’s main focus remains on 
the non-resource sector.
Individual Capabilities
Strengthening Our Foundation to Harness Individual Capabilities
to Enhance Corporate Value
 Page 30  Special Feature 1: Human Resource Strategy 
Since its founding, ITOCHU did not maintain freestanding stores, but instead cultivated a spirit 
of creating businesses on its own. Based on this DNA and our core focus on the non-resource 
sector, which consists of small businesses and a large number of customers, we have culti-
vated “individual capabilities.” The ability of individuals, who are also referred to as “brave war-
riors,” to create business through their own discretion on the front lines is characteristic of the 
Company and the driving force behind its sustainable value creation.
  Under “Brand-new Deal 2012” (FYE 2012–2013), we established our business fundamentals 
as the strengthening of front-line capabilities and the “earn, cut, prevent” principles, then imple-
mented various internal reforms to draw forth our latent individual capabilities. We subsequently 
enhanced initiatives for work-style reforms, including the introduction of the Morning-Focused 
Working System in FYE 2014. As a result, we achieve high labor productivity based on a small 
organization comprising select individuals. In fact, ITOCHU has the lowest number of employ-
ees on a non-consolidated basis among Japan’s general trading companies.
Photo courtesy of Archival Museum for the Faculty of Economics 
at Shiga University
Consolidated Net Profit  
per Employee (Non-Consolidated)
¥0.19 billion
(FYE 2023)
From the Company’s founding, mer-
chants  developed business by balanc-
ing their wares on shoulder poles as 
they traveled on foot to distant locales. 
This DNA has been steadily passed 
down through the eras until the pres-
ent as “individual capabilities.”
26
27
