Corporate Governance
■ Promoting More Active Discussions at Meetings of the Board of Directors
■ Discussions at Meetings of the Board of Directors Related to an Individual Project
To heighten the effectiveness of the Board of Directors, submission of and reporting on topics to the Board of Directors 
was continued in FYE 2023. The main topics that were reported on and submitted to the Board included sustainability-
related initiatives, a report on cybersecurity readiness, and the progress of corporate branding strategies. Summaries of 
the Board’s discussions on these three topics are as follows.
Based on the rules of the Board of Directors, investment or 
financing projects exceeding a certain monetary threshold 
require approval by the Board of Directors following approval 
by the HMC*.
Topic
Sustainability-
Related 
Initiatives
Report on 
Cybersecurity 
Readiness
Details of Discussions
Representatives of the Sustainability Management Division provided an overview of its operations and explained measures for the disclo-
sure of non-financial information in the Financial Information Report, climate change measures, and the acquisition of ESG evaluations, 
and discussions on these subjects were held. A variety of discussions were held on the Company’s current climate change measures. 
For example, an Outside Director inquired about the prospects of the Company achieving its goal of a 40% reduction in GHG emissions 
by 2030 compared with those of 2018. A representative of the department replied that it is continuing to prepare a roadmap that takes 
into account the actual business conditions of each Division Company and the impact of such factors as future technological innovations.
Representatives of the IT & Digital Strategy Division explained the Group’s cybersecurity-related initiatives and in-house systems, and dis-
cussions on these subjects were held. An Outside Director asked questions regarding the cybersecurity measures of the Group. In addi-
tion, an Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member expressed the opinion that given the use of extremely sophisticated techniques 
combining cyberattack technologies and ordinary fraud, the Company should conduct case studies on false remittances caused by iden-
tity theft and then educate officers and employees of the Company and its Group companies accordingly. An Inside Director explained 
the measures that are being considered, including the establishment of a separate company to attract and retain cybersecurity experts. 
The aforementioned discussions will be helpful for the Company’s initiatives going forward.
 Page 51 Risks Associated with Information Systems and Information Security
Progress of 
Corporate 
Branding 
Strategies
Representatives of the Corporate Brand Initiative (CBI)* explained the social environment-driven evolution of the Company’s corporate 
branding strategies, examinations of the Company’s corporate image, and the opening of ITOCHU SDGs STUDIO KIDS PARK, and 
discussions on these subjects were held. Lively discussions were held on corporate branding strategies. For example, an Outside 
Director expressed the hope that ITOCHU SDGs STUDIO KIDS PARK, which enables children to play safely and free of charge in 
Tokyo, would continue because, given the strong public demand for such facilities, the initiative aligns with current social trends. 
Also it was suggested to analyze the corporate branding strategies of competitors.
* Established in January 2020, the CBI promotes corporate branding and reports directly to the CAO.
ITOCHU considers it indispensable to fully strengthen the management oversight and supervising functions of outside 
officers, who bring perspective of the public and shareholders, to invigorate the Board of Directors. As a place for outside 
officers to deepen their understanding of the Company, we strive to further invigorate the Board of Directors by taking 
such measures as holding deliberations at Meetings of the Board of Directors and off-site discussions from the afore-
mentioned medium- to long-term view.
In FYE 2023, multiple projects were submitted to the 
Board of Directors, including “Execution of Agreement to 
Tender Shares in CONEXIO Corporation” in the ICT & 
Financial Business Company. CONEXIO’s main business is 
operating sales agencies for mobile phones and, until FYE 
2021, it was a strong-performing Group company boasting 
nine consecutive years of profit growth. Following changes 
in the mobile phone sales industry, however, profitability 
began a downward trajectory. Amid this situation, ITOCHU and CONEXIO searched for further Group synergies and simul-
taneously worked to study all possible options. When the public tender was ultimately determined to be the optimal option 
to realize higher corporate value for ITOCHU and CONEXIO, we decided to sell.
  First, after conducting a briefing related to the project for the Board of Directors, the content of executive discussions 
from the HMC and the Investment Consultative Committee was reported to the Board. This covered the sales price, the 
fairness of the premium, the status of negotiations with buyers, synergies expected by the buyers, the probability of the 
buyer enhancing CONEXIO’s corporate value, and the opinions of related administrative organizations. Other points that 
were raised included reflecting on the business expansion of CONEXIO to date, the need to promote the diversification of 
businesses that take their own initiative, and CONEXIO’s need to identify changes in the business environment surrounding 
the mobile phone sales industry and engage in business while forecasting potential scenarios. These and other opinions 
connected to future businesses were provided at the Board meeting. 
  As a result of discussions at Meetings of the Board of Directors, we realized we need to consider how this sale might 
impact ITOCHU’s relationship with telecommunication carriers. It was difficult to create additional synergies between 
CONEXIO and the Group, we determined that the proposed sales price was rational and began implementing the sale 
without letting our guard down during final sales price negotiations. We confirmed the focus on quickly establishing a new 
earnings base for the ICT & Financial Business Company, and approved the policy of sale through a tender offer bid.
* Headquarters Management Committee
Systems to Support and Provide Information to Outside Officers
Asset Replacement with No Boundaries
ITOCHU expands opportunities for on-site observations and briefings ahead of Meetings 
of the Board of Directors to enhance outside officers’ understanding of the issues, and 
to provide an overview of the wide variety of businesses that general trading companies 
are engaged in. From FYE 2022, in response to calls from outside officers as well, the 
Board of Directors has held regular discussions centered on non-financial themes, such 
as corporate branding and sustainability. These and similar agenda items help enhance 
medium- to long-term corporate value, further deepening our understanding of 
ITOCHU’s vision. In FYE 2023, we held the internal reporting meeting, in which outside 
officers also participated, to examine strategies connected to the medium- to long-term 
enhancement of ITOCHU’s corporate value. This meeting focused on how to help 
achieve growth strategies (through human resource strategies, financial and capital 
strategies, etc.), in addition to examining actual growth strategies based on the 
strengths of Division Companies and specific business expansion efforts going forward. 
Before the internal reporting meeting, Division Companies and administrative divisions 
held strategy workshops separate from daily operations. Through these focused discus-
sions, they were able to deepen the understanding of outside officers by providing 
 well-developed explanations on the key measures of each division at the reporting 
meeting. Going forward, ITOCHU will begin to implement the strategies and reach the 
stage of working to further expand its earnings base. The progress will be monitored 
by the Board of Directors and other bodies. Side by side, the outside officers will 
 proactively offer advice mainly in fields expected to contribute to progress in order to 
expand Groupwide business results and enhance corporate value.
Masatoshi Kawana
Outside Director
Mr. Kawana served as Vice-president of 
Tokyo Women’s Medical University Hospital, 
in addition to other positions, where he 
gained a high level of experience in hospital 
management and advanced knowledge of 
medical care. He assumed his position as a 
member of the Board of Directors at 
ITOCHU in June 2018. He uses his exper-
tise to provide many useful proposals and 
suggestions in the fields of health manage-
ment and setting preventive measures 
against in-office infection of COVID-19. As 
of FYE 2024, he serves on the Governance, 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
94
The tender offer for CONEXIO was a major project that included discussions on gover-
nance matters related to dissolution of parent–subsidiary listing, as well as business 
matters centering on large-scale asset replacement. After carefully monitoring the busi-
ness environment of each Group company, both listed and unlisted, ITOCHU is promot-
ing the replacement of low-efficiency businesses and businesses with diminished 
strategic significance. In addition, listed subsidiaries are of great concern to investors 
and other parties as they present corporate governance issues including risks related to 
conflicts of interests with minority shareholders. ITOCHU announced its policy related to 
the governance of listed subsidiaries, and, through its Corporate Governance Report 
and other documents, has explained that it will maintain a structure to avoid potential 
conflicts of interest. CONEXIO was originally spun off from a sales agency business for 
mobile phones, which ITOCHU had been involved in. The business contributed to profits 
for a long time and there were a lot of strong emotions involved within the Company, but 
we objectively reviewed its strategic significance and considered its standing as a listed 
subsidiary. As a result, it became subject to asset replacement. I hold the intention to 
exercise my role as an Outside Director by fulfilling check and supervisory function to 
ensure that the asset replacement process is conducted with no boundaries, while also 
considering the  parent–subsidiary listing perspective.
Makiko Nakamori
Outside Director
Ms. Nakamori possesses a high level of 
expertise in finance and accounting as a 
Certified Public Accountant in Japan, and 
has a wealth of experience as a corporate 
manager. She assumed her position as a 
member of the Board of Directors at 
ITOCHU in June 2019. She often provides 
insightful advice based on her specialized 
knowledge and unique experience in the 
fields of internal control, compliance, and 
DX. As of FYE 2024, she serves as chair of 
the Women’s Advancement Committee, 
and a member of the Governance, 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
95
