ITOCHU Corporation Annual Report 2023
CEO MESSAGE
Steadfast Non-Financial Initiatives
It has become widely accepted over time that a business 
focused only upon making money for itself is not sustain-
able over the long term.
  From the Meiji to the Taisho eras, there once was a gen-
eral trading company called “Suzuki Shoten” that rose to the 
No. 1 position in Japan. Its rapid rise is often attributed to its 
monopoly made possible by buying up steel, ships, rice, 
wheat, and other products that earned them huge profits. 
However, huge risks inherent with amassing such products 
emerged in the postwar recession and led to their collapse. 
Turning to more modern times with inflation creating various 
problems for global economies, soaring market prices for 
resources and other products has generated huge profits for 
some upstream companies. But at the same time, inflation 
also imposes burdens on downstream companies, consum-
ers, and society as a whole. This is not at all in line with 
“Sampo-yoshi,” which is our corporate mission, and also 
raises doubts about the sustainability of our businesses.
  We will work not just with a simple goal of expanding 
profits, but rather to steadily advance to new stages of 
growth and further evolve our corporate culture rooted in 
“Sampo-yoshi,” which is the source of our sustainable cor-
porate value creation. To this end, we are further enhancing 
our non-financial initiatives, with human resource strategies 
at the core of our efforts. In recent years, there has been an 
increasing interest in human capital management. ITOCHU’s 
corporate culture has long valued employees and, since 
early in its history, our Company has a tradition of viewing 
people as capital, and as a source of value creation. More 
recently, we have spearheaded efforts to improve our work 
environment and implemented programs that provide 
employees more flexibility in their work, starting with the 
“Morning-Focused Working System.” As a result, our 
Company’s work-style reforms have been lauded both in 
Japan and abroad. This evolution of our corporate culture 
has enabled us to achieve the No. 1 position in company 
rankings among jobseekers for both general trading compa-
nies and for companies in all industries. It also generates a 
virtuous cycle that allows us to hire outstanding personnel 
and enhances our human capital. Our Company’s human 
resource strategies are not designed to merely keep up with 
market trends, nor to mindlessly implement commonly used 
systems. Instead, we fully consider the effectiveness of our 
10
 Page 36 CAO Dialogue)
human resource measures and implement them with care.  
(
  The suite of our work-style reforms also aims to sustain-
ably enhance labor productivity and the advancement of 
women based on a similar line of thought. ITOCHU once set 
a target to hire women for 30% of its career-track employee 
positions, but numbers alone will not necessarily lead to 
good results. Because we did not sufficiently optimize job 
suitability for individual employees and upgrade systems in 
each organization, many of these women unfortunately 
resigned. Learning from this lesson, we prioritized upgrading 
our work environment and making improvements in work–life 
balance by establishing an in-house daycare center to pro-
vide childcare services to employees and the Morning-
Focused Working System. Consequently, the birthrate of 
ITOCHU’s female employees is now significantly higher than 
the rate for Tokyo and Japan as a whole. Even after suffi-
ciently upgrading our work environment through these meth-
ods, we further stepped up our efforts and established the 
Women’s Advancement Committee. Throughout this pro-
cess, former Outside Director Atsuko Muraki, who has a 
wealth of expertise in promoting the advancement of 
women, truly gave her all to these efforts. But she has now 
passed the baton onto Outside Director Makiko Nakamori to 
further this pursuit. Although Ms. Muraki, who kindly served 
for an extended period of time, has now resigned as Outside 
Director, she will continue to grace us with her wisdom as a 
 Page 30 Special Feature 
member of the Advisory Board. (
1: Human Resource Strategy to Enhance Corporate Value)
In addition, matters related to corporate officers are 
considered to have real significance and have also been 
assigned high priority by our management team. For 
example, our CAO and CFO reached the internal obliga-
tory retirement age in June 2023. However, we have 
determined through consultations with the Nomination 
Committee that these individuals are essential to our 
Company’s management and would be difficult to 
replace, particularly given the current uncertainties in the 
external environment. This led to our decision to have 
them stay on for one more year.
  Given my desire to get more people to become familiar 
with general trading companies like ours, ITOCHU is bol-
stering its corporate advertising program. The Company’s 
non-financial initiatives have garnered high accolades, 
including receiving the highest rankings in the ESG indices 
selected by the Government Pension Investment Fund 
(GPIF) and the ESG evaluation index from S&P, etc. 
Furthermore, our annual report swept the top spots of all 
the major evaluation institutions. These various efforts to 
steadily fortify our corporate branding will help strengthen 
the trust placed in us by society and the engagement of 
our employees. Our strengthened branding program will 
also serve as a driving force to sustainably enhance corpo-
rate value. Accordingly, not only do our business divisions 
pursue numbers, but each administrative division also 
establishes targets that can be quantified in external evalu-
ations. These efforts are monitored in management meet-
ings. Consequently, we also endeavor to elevate our 
administrative divisions in a well-balanced manner.
Invigorating Our Entire Industry
ITOCHU’s top management owns shares in our Company, 
and the percentage of membership in the Employee 
Shareholding Association is nearly 100%. We consider 
this to be a natural means of aligning the interests of all 
our employees with our shareholders. Accordingly, we 
highly value dialogue with shareholders and investors, 
and reflect their valuable opinions in management policies 
and measures while keeping an eye on our share price 
performance. We consider this to be a market-oriented 
perspective from the viewpoint of the stock market.
  Regarding our shares in FYE 2023, we were able to 
announce both an upward revision to our earnings along 
with measures to expand shareholder returns in October 
2022, based upon our dialogue with the market. Since 
then, our share price has reached record-high levels three 
times. Furthermore, we have announced our FYE 2024 
initial plan and shareholder returns policy, and with June’s 
additional investment from Berkshire Hathaway Inc. in five 
general trading companies, our share price continues to 
set new record highs. The low point in our share price 
reached in 1999, when it temporarily slipped below ¥200, 
feels like a totally different world.
  We have continued to increase dividends from ¥15 per 
share in FYE 2010 to ¥160 in FYE 2024. And when I hear 
words of gratitude from our shareholders, it brings me 
great joy as CEO of the Company. Going forward, we will 
announce details of our shareholder returns policy from 
FYE 2025 onward and we intend to hold thorough dis-
cussions internally to ensure that we continue to meet 
 Page 54 CFO 
the expectations of the stock market. (
Interview)
I have often said that compared with profit levels, the 
share prices of general trading companies are very low. 
I am grateful that the share prices of general trading 
 companies, not just ITOCHU, are all currently rising. 
And I hope that we can invigorate the entire industry 
so that each company engages in healthy competition 
to become better without growing overconfident, given 
the current attention being garnered by our industry. 
Striving to Become “the Best Company in Japan”
On April 3, 2023, the first-floor lobby of our headquarters 
was the venue of young people walking one by one down 
a red carpet surrounded by cherry blossoms in full bloom. 
This was a special welcome ceremony to commemorate 
recent graduates becoming employees of ITOCHU, and it 
was designed to make their first day at our Company 
unforgettable, as so many of them had been deprived of a 
normal student life because of the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Every year, we carefully plan this ceremony with small 
improvements, and even through these efforts, we would 
like to show our Company’s evolution. This year, we set 
the scene by acquiring 700 Yoshino flowering cherry 
boughs from farmers in regions that were affected by the 
Welcome ceremony viewed by families online
Great East Japan Earthquake. A trio of piano, violin, and 
cello added even more flair to this special event by show-
ering the lobby and participants with their beautiful music. 
Furthermore, we made sure that the families of the new 
recruits were able to view this celebratory occasion online 
because of my constant desire to make parents of 
employees proud that their children joined ITOCHU. And 
just like the young cherry buds on the verge of becoming 
flowers in full bloom served as a symbol reflecting the 
youth of the new graduate hires, I anxiously look forward 
to the day these many young and aspirational recruits gain 
experience and turn into full-fledged employees who will 
contribute to our Company’s businesses and promote our 
competitive advantages in the near future.
In spring 2017, I vowed in front of the grave of an 
employee who died of cancer that I would guide ITOCHU 
to become the best company in Japan. While I believe 
we still have some way to go, I feel confident that we are 
making good progress to realizing this vow. Going for-
ward, I will continue to move full steam ahead with the 
aim of further elevating our growth stage. So it is my 
hope that all of you look forward to the further growth 
and evolution to come for ITOCHU.
11
