CAO Dialogue
Kobayashi:  
Thank you for your sound advice. We have spent consid-
erable time discussing our mission of “achieving the 
SDGs,” including decarbonization, and consider this a 
crucial social responsibility in which we need to not only 
deal with immediate issues but also educate and raise 
awareness among the next generation. In keeping with 
this responsibility, we established the ITOCHU SDGs 
STUDIO next to our Tokyo Headquarters as a base to 
disseminate information about the SDGs. The studio also 
features a facility where children can learn through play 
about SDGs concepts and their connections to society. 
We are happy to be able to report that many people are 
making use of this facility. (
Opened at the ITOCHU SDGs STUDIO)
 Page 76 New Facilities 
Shibusawa:  
To contribute to the sustainability of society, educating 
children, who will be responsible for determining the 
future, is an important mission for companies.
   Human Capital as a Source of  
“Non-Visible Value”
Kobayashi:  
From FYE 2023, it has become mandatory to disclose 
more extensive human capital-related disclosure in annual 
securities reports, but at the same time freedom over vol-
untary disclosure has also increased in certain aspects. 
ITOCHU’s score on the engagement survey conducted in 
FYE 2022 was high compared to the average Japanese 
company, but was slightly lower than our score recorded 
in FYE 2019. In particular, scores of junior employees have 
been on a downward trend, and our analysis has found 
certain key issues such as the desire for more flexible work 
styles, adverse effects of vertical organizational silos, and 
limitations of existing educational and training programs 
that require special attention. We disclose the results of 
our analysis both internally and externally, and we need to 
develop specific countermeasures to help resolve these 
key issues. Consequently, we sought first to realize more 
flexible work styles. In full consideration of the front lines of 
our work where we interact with our customers, we intro-
duced the Morning-Focused Flextime System, which com-
bines the flextime system with ITOCHU’s hallmark 
Morning-Focused Working System. We also expanded the 
work from home system to all employees. With regards to 
the issue of vertical organizational silos, which seems to be 
a common characteristic of all general trading companies, 
we are working to steadily eliminate these silos by intro-
ducing systems where employees can transfer more flexi-
bly between Division Companies, as well as implementing 
the new Virtual Office system, which enables employees to 
hold dual jobs within ITOCHU. Frankly, we were unsure if 
we should disclose the issues identified in the engagement 
survey. However, by also disclosing our suite of 
38
countermeasures and clearly showing ITOCHU’s commit-
ment to making improvements, we were able to garner 
acclaim from outside our Company as well as from our 
employees. In addition, the Company has set labor pro-
ductivity as an indicator to measure the effectiveness of 
our human resource investments. And because ITOCHU 
has fewer employees compared to our competitors, we 
need to increase the labor productivity of each of our 
employees, whom collectively comprise our greatest man-
agement resource, in order to continue to enhance our 
corporate value. To this end, we have taken a variety of 
measures, such as reducing the number of meetings and 
documents to improve productivity and introducing our 
Morning-Focused Working System to enhance efficiency. 
Consequently, labor productivity in FYE 2023 improved by 
approximately five times when compared with FYE 2011.
Shibusawa:  
Five times is astounding! Corporate disclosure can be an 
effective tool for a dialogue to communicate policies, direc-
tions, and other important information to stakeholders. As 
an investor, we are interested not in what a company is 
accomplishing today, but rather where it is heading and 
what challenges the company is taking on, especially 
 demonstrated quantitatively, to become able to do what it 
cannot do today. Showing ambition toward achieving its 
goals, together with a concrete roadmap will be a favorable 
tool for future corporate value creation. I think there is a 
limit to the “Showa-style” employment structure of lifetime 
employment, seniority-based promotions, and mass hiring 
of new graduates. While large companies tend to focus on 
lowering their voluntary resignation rate, I do not think that is 
always the right mentality. The “New Form of Capitalism” 
announced by the current Japanese Government cites the 
objective of smoothing mobility in the labor market. I believe 
Japan’s labor market can grow significantly by realizing con-
ditions that allow personnel to seamlessly transfer between 
companies. For example, a virtuous cycle could be created 
where ITOCHU’s corporate value increases further when 
employees bearing ITOCHU’s DNA leave the Company and 
then either return to the Company later with new skills and 
knowledge acquired from their time spent outside, or even if 
they do not return to the Company they instead directly 
contribute to society using their skills and knowledge 
acquired as an ITOCHU alumnus. Based on this train of 
thought, I believe it would be interesting for ITOCHU to 
establish an indicator using not just the employee 
resignation rate, but also the re-employment rate. Japanese 
companies still lack diversity in terms of gender, nationality, 
and seniority. Many companies are increasing the number of 
female outside directors, but because ITOCHU has a large 
number of excellent and talented personnel in-house, the 
Company should also increase the number of females 
assigned to executive officer-level positions.
Kobayashi:  
As you suggest, using the re-employment rate as an 
 indicator seems to be a novel approach. As you also 
pointed out, ITOCHU considers the promotion of wom-
en’s advancement as an important management priority. 
In FYE 2022, the Company established the Women’s 
Advancement Committee as an advisory committee to 
the Board of Directors, and it has begun full-scale efforts 
to develop measures to promote women. However, the 
majority of career-track female employees are still in their 
20s and 30s, which is a little inexperienced to become a 
manager and not something that can be easily remedied. 
We are not just setting quantitative targets, but are also 
steadily promoting measures to support the advance-
ment of women while listening to the opinions of our 
female employees. Because we enable employees to tap 
into their full potential, health management is the most 
important concern for our Company. We established the 
ITOCHU Health Charter in FYE 2017 and have fostered 
an environment where employees can work with peace of 
mind. With regards to our operations related to employee 
health, we employ a total of around 50 medical profes-
sionals, including three full-time doctors. Thanks to this 
internalized medical function, we provided comprehen-
sive support day and night, 365 days a year during the 
pandemic, and were able to prevent the outbreak of any 
cluster infections in the office or severe cases. And in rec-
ognition of our medical staffs’ efforts throughout the pan-
demic, we presented special employee awards to the 
medical personnel just the other day.
Shibusawa:  
As you said, I think employees can only create value 
when they are first able to work without any concerns for 
their health. Personnel costs, benefits, and other similar 
expenses can be considered a long-term investment. 
And yet under current financial accounting, they are ulti-
mately recognized as costs, and positioned as factors 
that reduce corporate value. Thinking about it another 
way, the value of people is not quantifiable financially; 
they have “non-visible value” and can be considered as 
an expected value that can be realized in the future. 
Looking at it from a capital markets perspective, a price-
to-book ratio (PBR) of 1 time indicates a state where “vis-
ible value = market expectations,” completely absent of 
any “non-visible value.” The point where PBR exceeds 1 
time marks the point at which “non-visible value = 
people” first appears in this valuation indicator, and 
reflects future growth expectations. ITOCHU has focused 
on human capital from early on and has achieved the 
highest PBR of all the general trading companies. I think 
this shows how there is a positive correlation between 
human capital and PBR.
Kobayashi:  
Thank you. I am extremely glad that ITOCHU’s “non- 
visible value” is being lauded by the market.
   Promoting “Sampo-yoshi” around the World 
and into the Future
Shibusawa:  
Let’s expand our perspective to include the world of invest-
ment, and also consider the “New Form of Capitalism” phi-
losophy put forth by the Japanese Government. In addition 
to the two conventional dimensions of “risk” and “return,” 
we will continue incorporating the concept of “impact 
investing” to visualize a third dimension of positive and 
negative impacts on the environment and society from 
the perspective of corporate management. ITOCHU’s 
“Sampo-yoshi” corporate mission is not just about doing 
“good,” and interesting if you could figure out a way to 
measure the “good” done. Although I think the value as a 
seller can be visualized to some extent, if it is somehow 
possible to visualize the impact of the value to the buyers 
and society, then it would also be possible to show the 
impact to society. And this could become a “common 
language” unlike any other in the world.
Kobayashi:  
When vaccines were being provided at workplaces during 
the COVID-19 pandemic, ITOCHU continually disclosed 
daily reports of its own vaccination program so that other 
vaccination centers might benefit from this information. 
Our Company also discloses all content related to our 
many unique initiatives and human resource measures. 
These activities have had a major impact in some cases 
on a wide segment of Japanese society, and may be 
referred to as ITOCHU’s unique “impact.” Just as I have 
received many clues through today’s dialogue with you, 
I have found a renewed awareness of our ability to enrich 
the world through our businesses. And we will remain 
committed to practicing our unwavering philosophy of 
“Sampo-yoshi” and strive to further enhance ITOCHU’s 
sustainability. Thank you for your time today.
39
