Approach to Climate Change and Related Initiatives
■ Climate Change Metrics and Targets
■ Business Initiatives to Help Reduce GHG Emissions
GHG Emissions Reduction and Offset Targets
•  Achieving net zero GHG emissions by 2050 to comply with the Japanese government’s target. In addition, aiming to 
offset CO2 to zero*1 by 2040 by actively promoting businesses that contribute to the reduction of GHG emissions.
• Complying with the Japanese government’s interim target*2 by achieving a 40% reduction from 2018 level by 2030.
•  Based on the understanding that ongoing initiatives to reduce GHG emissions are key, flexibly and dynamically 
adjusting “reduction pathways” while paying attention to the unique traits of client industries, assuming it is 
possible to expand business while addressing societal demands at the same time.
•  Steadily reducing emissions from a medium- to long-term perspective through initiatives in supply chains, 
including reviews of products handled in light of changes in client industries, and transitions to improve fuel economy 
in logistics networks, centered on the non-resource sector where the Company has strengths.
*1  Situations where reduction contributions exceed the Company’s GHG emissions
*2 The Japanese government’s target of a 46% reduction from the 2013 level by 2030 is a 39% reduction based on the year 2018.
Contribution to reduction
Expanding renewable energy, ESS, EVs, hydrogen and 
ammonia business, etc.
GHG emissions
Reducing handling of fossil fuels and related products
Providing leadership to suppliers and customers
Contribution to reduction > GHG emissions
➝Offsetting CO2 to zero
2018
2030
2040
(40%)
(75%)
*1 Scope of GHG emissions: Scopes1/2/3 + Fossil fuel businesses and interests (affiliates and general investments)
*2 For environmental data on GHG emissions and other items, please see 
 Page 116 ESG Data
■ Efforts to Reduce GHG Emissions from Fossil Fuel Businesses and Interests
After announcing a policy of completely withdrawing from its thermal coal interests during the medium-term management 
plan, our Company proceeded to sell its Ravensworth North thermal coal interest in Australia following the sale of its 
Drummond thermal coal interest in Colombia, achieving a 50% reduction in GHG emissions from fossil fuel businesses 
and interests* compared to those of FYE 2019 ahead of schedule. While fulfilling its responsibility for stable supplies of 
natural resources and energy, we will continue to actively promote efforts to reduce environmental impact.
FYE 2019
FYE 2020
FYE 2021
FYE 2022
FYE 2023
37 million tons
GHG emissions from our fossil fuel 
businesses and interests
Achieved ahead of schedule target 
to reduce GHG emissions by 50% 
compared with FYE 2019 level
Approx. 1 year later
3 months later
March 2022
Sold our interests in the Ravensworth North 
thermal coal mine in Australia
2050: Net zero
2040: Zero with offsets
2030: Reduce by 40%  
compared with 2018 level
May 2021
Announced GHG emissions 
 reduction and offset targets
Approx. 1 and a half years later
April 2021
Sold our interests in the Drummond  
thermal coal mine in Colombia
January 2021
Announced our policy to fully withdraw  
from thermal coal interests
Approx. 1 year later
10 months later
May 2019
Announced our endorsement of the TCFD recommen-
dations after conducting a scenario analysis based on 
the TCFD recommendations supported by the Ministry  
of the Environment 
Participated in the TCFD Consortium
February 2019
Announced the Coal-Related Business Policy
Sold Rolleston thermal coal interests in Australia
April 2018
Designated “Address Climate Change”  
as a revised material issue
Method for Calculating GHG Emissions:
In addition to Scope1 and 2, we disclose all GHG emissions in our value 
chain, including Scope3 in the following categories.
Category 1. Purchased goods and services
Example: Calculation assuming resources of our interest stakes are purchased
Category 4. Upstream transportation and distribution
Example: Calculation of our portion of emissions, including transportation to ports
Category 11. Use of sold products
Example: Calculation assuming resources of our interest stakes are sold to and 
combusted by the buyer
Clean-Tech Business Metrics and Targets 
We have established “GHG emissions reduction and offset targets,” as well as individual targets for clean-tech busi-
nesses, and are steadily moving forward with swift and decisive climate change measures.
Individual Targets and Initiatives for the Clean-Tech Business
Clean-Tech Business
Individual Targets and Initiatives
Renewable Energy 
Business
•  Increase the ratio of renewable energy capacity within our power generation portfolio to over 20% by FYE 2031
•  Invested in renewable energy generation of approximately 1,600 MW, such as in Cotton Plains (wind and solar power) and 
Prairie Switch (wind power), both of which are in the United States, and in Sarulla Operations (geothermal power) in Indonesia
•  Currently newly developing renewable energy business of approximately 2,000 MW to achieve a renewable energy ratio of 
over 20%
Fuel Ammonia-Related 
Business
Energy Storage 
Systems (ESS)-Related 
Businesses
Water Infrastructure-
Related Business
Waste Management 
Project
•  Establish a value chain of fuel ammonia through integrated development including development, ownership, and operation 
of ammonia-fueled ships, development of fuel supply bases, and procurement of fuel ammonia
•  After 2026, contribute to decarbonization of international shipping by promoting the spread of ammonia-fueled ships and 
their social implementation
•  Aim for a cumulative capacity of ESS units sold of over 5 GWh by FYE 2031
•  Expand our achievements in Europe and Australia to other regions. Continue to build up excellent assets
•  Expand our achievements in Europe to the Middle East and other regions in Asia. Continue to build up excellent assets
Please refer to ITOCHU’s website for detailed information.
 https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/business/cleantech/
Creating a Supply Chain of the Ferrous Raw Material for Green Ironmaking with Low Carbon Emission
Steel is an irreplaceable material underpinning social infrastructure that is used by a wide range of industries, but reducing CO2 
emissions during its production processes has become an urgent issue in the industry. Compared with the conventional blast fur-
nace method, the direct reduction method, which uses natural gas and high-grade iron ore for reduction, significantly reduces CO2 
emissions in the steelmaking process.
  To ensure the stable supply of high-grade iron ore, which is indispensable raw material for the direct reduction method, ITOCHU 
acquired partial interests in the AMMC iron ore mining business operating in Canada, through ITOCHU Minerals & Energy of Australia 
Pty Ltd in December 2022. Ahead of this, ITOCHU, together with JFE Steel Corporation, our long-term business partner, agreed to 
jointly promote detailed commercialization surveys regarding the building of a low-carbon reduced steel supply chain with Emirates Steel 
Arkan, the largest steel manufacturer in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). In this business, we plan to utilize high-grade iron ore produced 
by CSN Mineração S.A., a Brazilian iron ore business that ITOCHU has invested in, as well. Conventional blast furnace steel produces 
approximately 2 tons of CO2 emissions per ton of crude steel. The direct reduction method using natural gas competitively priced in the 
UAE, effectively cuts this to about 1 to 1.5 tons of CO2 emissions. In addition, by processing the CO2 emitted during the reduction pro-
cess through carbon dioxide capture, utilization, and storage (CCUS) technologies that inject CO2 into oil fields, we are able to further 
reduce CO2 emissions. In the near future, by realizing reduction through hydrogen, we aim to achieve net zero CO2 emissions.
  Going forward, after conducting a detailed commercialization survey, we plan to begin producing low-carbon reduced iron from 
2026 and will work to build a supply chain to serve the Asian market. To resolve various industrial issues, ITOCHU will help build  
a more robust decarbonized society through collaboration with customers and partners, including blue-chip companies, and the 
provision of new materials.
Comparison of CO2 Emissions  
when  Producing 1 Ton of Crude Steel
Blast Furnace 
Method
Approx. 2 tons  
of CO2 emissions
Direct Reduction Method
<Reduced with 
 natural gas>
Approx. 1–1.5 tons 
of CO2 emissions
<Reduced with  hydrogen 
in the future>
Net zero  
CO2 emissions
Low-carbon reduced iron
Exchange of MOU at the UAE Economic Mission
*  Fossil fuel businesses and interests (consolidated subsidiaries, affiliates, and general investments): (1) Coal interests (thermal and coking coal),  
(2) Coal-fired power generation, and (3) Oil and gas interests
80
81
