ITOCHU Corporation Annual Report 2023
Strengths Accumulated 
as a Merchant
Since its founding in 1858, ITOCHU has fostered a unique corporate culture while flexibly changing its business structure,  
primarily by dynamically allocating management resources to growth areas that shift with time and leveraging business investments to 
enhance in the value chain. Our business model, which currently boasts high sustainability, has enabled us to consistently overcome 
the obstacles we have faced, such as the management reforms in the late 1990s. The driving force behind this model lies in four 
strengths we have accumulated over our history of more than 160 years.
Accumulated Strength
Comprehensive Strength and 
Ability of Self-Transformation
Compound Annual Growth Rate of  
Consolidated Net Profit
12.9%
(FYE 2011–FYE 2024 Plan)
We realize sustainable growth by leveraging 
our comprehensive strength as a general trading 
company and flexibly transforming ourselves in 
response to the external environment.
(Photo courtesy of Archival Museum for the Faculty of 
Economics at Shiga University)
Based in the former Ohmi Province 
(present-day Shiga Prefecture), the 
merchants of Ohmi transported their 
wares on shoulder poles, peddling 
items into neighboring provinces  
(pursuing business in all parts of 
Japan from the Kansai region). 
ITOCHU was started by Chubei Itoh I, 
who engaged in the linen trade.
Consolidated Net Profit
(Plan)
1970
1980
1990
2000
2010
2020
(FYE)
Founded–
1950s–
1980s–
1990s–
2010s–
Chubei Itoh I
Focus Mainly on the Textile Sector
Chubei Itoh I commenced linen trading opera-
tions via Osaka in Senshu (now the southwest-
ern part of Osaka Prefecture) and Kishu (now 
Wakayama Prefecture). From a base in Osaka, 
we expanded business, mainly in the textile 
sector.
Diversification, Including 
Automobiles, Petroleum, and Food
We pursued a path of diversification, and as a 
result non-textile areas accounted for around 
40% of trading volume in 1958. In the 1960s, 
we expanded our business to include energy, 
machinery, general merchandise projects, and 
the iron and steel business, becoming a “¥1 
trillion trading company.” In 1977, we further 
expanded the iron and steel business through 
a merger with Ataka & Co., Ltd.
Expansion in the ICT Sector
As yen appreciation became a fixture of the 
economy, we promoted internationalization 
and globalization. We moved aggressively 
into the ICT field and entered the satellite 
business.
Set the Steppingstones for 
the Current Business
We took decisive action to dispose of low-
efficiency and unprofitable assets to sweep 
away negative legacy assets from the bubble 
era. At the same time, we set in place the 
steppingstones for the future, such as 
acquiring shares in FamilyMart in 1998.
Enhancing Comprehensive Strength  
by Harnessing Our Ability of Self-Transformation
Ahead of other general trading companies, we began focusing on the non-resource sector. We 
commenced a strategic business and capital alliance with CITIC and CP Group, strengthened 
North American construction materials-related businesses, acquired the Dole business, increased 
stake in major Group companies, and privatized FamilyMart. We have further built up comprehen-
sive strength and promoted self-transformation from a market-oriented perspective in part by 
entwining our business investments to create multifaceted businesses that connect for synergy, 
establishing The 8th Company, and developing the value chain of energy storage systems.
24
25
