Special Feature 1: Human Resource Strategy to Enhance Corporate Value
Enhancing Health
Developing an environment where employees can continue working with peace of mind
Supporting Employee-Led Career Development
Creating growth opportunities based on each individual’s aptitudes
We consider enhancing health the foundation of strength-
ening personnel capabilities to achieve the Guideline of 
Conduct: “I am One with Infinite Missions.” Accordingly, 
we have formulated the ITOCHU Health Charter and pro-
moted many measures related to health and safety, such 
as Support Measures for Balancing Cancer Care and 
Work. This measure was introduced in FYE 2018 in an 
effort to create an environment where employees can 
work with peace of mind. They include regular special 
screenings conducted in cooperation with the National 
Cancer Center Research Institute, support for educa-
tional costs to graduate school in the event that there are 
bereaved children, and work support within the Group for 
bereaved children and spouses.
  Moreover, the cancer incidence rate is higher for 
women in their working years. Therefore, we are pro-
moting Support for Balancing Cancer Care and Work, 
which are also expected to support the advancement of 
women. To establish a work environment where women 
can actively work over the long term, we encourage 
female employees under 34 years old to get cervical 
cancer tests. These are typically compulsory for women 
35 years and older at ITOCHU, but we have been provid-
ing a subsidy to cover the test fees since FYE 2021. In 
FYE 2023, we established a help desk where employees 
can anonymously consult with external midwives hired by 
ITOCHU on matters related to women-specific health 
concerns, as well as issues of balancing work and life.
In recognition of these steadfast efforts, we garnered 
high praise from society. For example, we received the 
medical exam category award for FYE 2023, from the 
Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare’s Cancer 
Countermeasure Promotion Company Action program, 
and ITOCHU was selected as a Health & Productivity 
Management Outstanding Organization (White 500) for 
the seventh consecutive year since FYE 2017. Going  
forward, we will continue to prioritize the health of every 
employee and realize a work environment where employ-
ees can work with peace of mind.
Women’s Advancement
In October 2021, to further accelerate women’s advancement, we established the 
Women’s Advancement Committee as an advisory committee for the Board of 
Directors. The committee was chaired by Atsuko Muraki*, who was at the time an 
Outside Director, and half of its members are outside officers. In addition to investi-
gating various measures the Company has taken to date, the committee hears the 
opinions of employees and the front lines. It also holds regular deliberations on nec-
essary countermeasures, as well as the future direction for policies on accelerating 
training for managerial promotions and evolving toward flexible workstyles.
  Going forward, after meticulously assessing the situation of every female 
employee, we will continue to steadily encourage female employees as we work 
to perpetuate the cycle of collaboration with the front lines, discussions at the 
Women’s Advancement Committee, and reporting to the Board of Directors.
Gender Pay-Gap
Nearly 80% of career-track female employees, who are assigned core roles of 
ITOCHU, are still in their 20s and 30s. While the primary factor behind the gender 
pay-gap is the low percentage of women in managerial positions. There is,  
however, no gender pay-gap for the same position and duties under the 
Company’s human resource system.
ITOCHU set quantitative targets for the total number of career-track women 
recruited in the early 2000s. While we succeeded with certain hiring targets, we 
failed to establish a receptive environment on the front lines, which led to attrition. 
In light of this situation, we consider it necessary to establish a work environment, 
rooted in the front lines, that enables career-track women to work actively over 
the long term. Since 2010, we have promoted a suite of work-style reforms. At 
present, we are steadily advancing promotions. Career-track female employees 
who joined the Company since the late 2000s, when recruitment numbers 
expanded, have built up their careers and they are successfully cultivated. The 
appointment of female employees to manager positions has been promoted, and  
for example, a female president was appointed to overseas office in April 2023.
Discussion at the Women’s Advancement 
Committee
*  Atsuko Muraki, former Outside Director of 
the Company, provides advice on the business 
management of the Company in her capacity 
as a member of the Advisory Board, enabling 
her extensive experience and expertise  
to be utilized in the business management  
of the Company.
Gender Pay-Gap
(%)
 FYE 2011
 FYE 2023
59.1
55.5
73.9
61.6
Overall
Career-Track
ITOCHU provides each employee with opportunities for 
self-directed study and challenging experiences, and pro-
motes Groupwide career-building support and personnel 
development suited to diverse capabilities and character-
istics. The Company systematically provides locations for 
diverse experiences beyond the boundaries of the head-
quarters, such as dispatches to Group companies and 
overseas experience by the eighth year of joining the 
Company. Since FYE 2000, we have positioned training 
costs as human capital investments for the sustainable 
enhancement of corporate value and invested around 
¥1.0 billion every year. We conduct periodic reviews 
across the Company to help create more effective per-
sonnel training measures. In addition, in support of career 
development, we introduced elective online training pro-
grams with roughly 9,500 courses that can be taken 
freely with no limits on time or location. The programs are 
also provided overseas, not just for employees stationed 
overseas, and are utilized every year by around 1,000 
employees of overseas offices and branches. In addition, 
we expanded the Challenge Career System (in-house 
recruitment system), which enables employees to transfer 
between organizations, and introduced the Virtual Office 
(in-house dual jobs system) as a platform for cross- 
organization collaboration.
Strengthening of its Femtech Initiatives with Virtual Office
  https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/news/press/2023/230727.html
Virtual Office
Cross-organization collaboration platform to 
promote projects across organizations and 
accelerate the creation of new businesses
In line with the decisions of 
employees who are highly 
passionate about projects
Connecting organizations 
virtually beyond the barriers 
of departments
Effectively promoting proj-
ects in the short term while 
mutually sharing know-how
Providing Evaluation and Compensation Commensurate with Results
Promoting growth by increasing feedback and level of understanding
ITOCHU introduced a salary structure highly linked to the 
Company’s performance. In line with the steady expansion 
of the Company’s results, average yearly income was 
¥17.30 million in FYE 2023, firmly in the top level in Japan. 
From FYE 2025, to increase employee motivation and com-
petitiveness for recruitment, we will focus on personnel 
evaluations and rewards based on achievement by revis-
ing personnel system.
In addition, from FYE 2014, we introduced the excellent 
employee award system to honor employees who have 
made notable quantitative and qualitative contributions. 
In FYE 2021, we introduced the Infinite Missions Award 
to honor teams who have made major accomplishments 
or promoted SDGs initiatives and businesses based on 
a market-oriented perspective. We have also introduced 
systems that help enhance the job satisfaction of Group 
employees, such as the Excellent CEO Club, to honor  
the presidents of the Group companies who demonstrate  
excellent management skills, and the “Group Companies 
Management Awards Program (
Group companies that helped enhance corporate 
value of the Group.
 Page 61)” for the 
Increasing Awareness of Participation in Management
Utilizing the Employee Shareholding Association to enable medium- to long-term asset formation
To raise awareness of participation in management among 
employees, we provide financial incentives for owning 
ITOCHU stock through the Employee Shareholding 
Association. Since FYE 2020, we have provided special 
financial incentives through this mechanism when the 
Company’s results exceed a certain threshold as ITOCHU 
introduced a stock compensation scheme that provides a 
commensurate amount of shares. Through these 
measures, the participation rate is almost 100%, at the 
high level rarely seen in Japan. This supports the asset  
formation of our employees, and successfully links the 
Company’s performance with their own personal assets, 
ensuring employees stay attuned to changes in share price 
and management. In this way, individual employees and 
the Company will work in unison in an ongoing effort to 
enhance corporate value going forward.
32
33
 
 
 
