COO MESSAGE
and restarts of numerous coal-fired power plants, which 
can generate low-cost electricity, have been announced. 
Even in Japan, demand for alternative sources of thermal 
coal to replace Russian-produced coal is rising due to 
high demand from electric power companies, and is stall-
ing current decarbonization efforts. ITOCHU announced 
its complete withdrawal from thermal coal interests 
during the current medium-term management plan 
period, and from FYE 2019 our Company has sold three 
of its four thermal coal interests ahead of similar moves 
by other general trading companies. While there is no 
change in our plan to sell the remaining thermal coal 
interest to achieve a complete withdrawal from this busi-
ness, we seek to achieve an appropriate withdrawal at 
the right time after fully considering such factors as our 
responsibility for stable supply as a general trading com-
pany and economic rationale, namely what would be a 
fair sale price for the remaining interest amid the current 
decline in thermal coal prices. Regarding the progress 
of this sale going forward, we will provide briefings to 
 Page 78 Approach 
stakeholders when appropriate. (
to Climate Change and Related Initiatives)
ITOCHU’s policy is to reduce GHG emissions through-
out its main business of trade and business investment. 
However, to sustainably and steadily reduce GHG emis-
sions, we need to take into account our business profit-
ability that is subject to any GHG emissions reduction 
activities as part of our overall SDGs-related business 
that is firmly connected to the “earn” principle, to ensure 
that we maintain our current earnings generation capabil-
ity and sustainability of our Company. Since regulations 
to reduce GHG emissions have been formulated in the 
aviation industry, demand for sustainable fuels has been 
growing. ITOCHU is steadily promoting activities for the 
Breaking Down the “Three Walls”
When conducting business, we need to be alert to the 
tendency of unconsciously erecting walls based upon dif-
ferences in organizations to which we belong, genera-
tional gaps, career paths we have taken, and other 
factors that may separate us. I believe breaking down 
these walls will help further enhance ITOCHU’s compre-
hensive strength. I have noticed “Three Walls” since 
becoming President & COO. 
  The first wall is the organizational structure. General trad-
ing companies usually build vertical structures in line with 
each industry and product line. When visiting customers, 
I envision the functions and expertise our partners require 
from our Company, and then bring along multiple employ-
ees from different Division Companies to be able to respond 
to as wide a range of their needs as possible. For example, 
the automotive industry is making a sharp turn toward EVs 
and electrification. When I visited the president of an auto-
mobile manufacturer, I was mindful of promoting cross-
industry alliances, including those with IT companies, 
start of sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) supplies to replace 
existing jet fuels to aviation companies in Japan and 
overseas. The supply of SAF does not require large-scale 
capital expenditure because we can leverage the busi-
ness know-how we have already built up through our 
trading business. This is the well-grounded way for us to 
promote SDGs-related businesses. In addition, ITOCHU 
serves the steel industry, which is facing pressure to 
reduce its high levels of GHG emissions and decarbon-
ize. And to help our steel industry customers meet these 
environmental demands, we invested in high-grade 
Canadian iron ore interests to supply low-carbon raw 
materials of direct reduced iron in FYE 2023. Some 
people may have felt it odd that ITOCHU, which is focus-
ing on the non-resource sector in Japan, invested in this 
overseas resource sector project. However, our Company 
was able to purchase this project under preferential terms 
because it was related to one of our long-time business 
partners. And without these bonds of trust, we would not 
have been able to acquire this resource business, which 
has a high value for its scarcity and excellent cost com-
petitiveness. Not only the contribution for short-term prof-
its, but over the medium- to long-term, we expect further 
expansion of business opportunities by building a supply 
chain that can provide low-carbon direct reduced iron, 
which uses high-grade iron ore as raw material. Thus, in 
addition to the “earn” principle, we will provide solutions 
for addressing issues in various industries. In other 
words, we will simultaneously pursue economic value as 
well as environmental / social value as we steadily fortify 
our SDGs-related business. (
Chain of the Ferrous Raw Material for Green Ironmaking 
with Low Carbon Emission)
 Page 81 Creating a Supply 
battery manufacturers, and others to supplement the vari-
ous functions that automobile manufacturers themselves 
do not maintain internally. I also brought along Energy & 
Chemicals Company employees well-versed in energy 
storage systems, the power business, and other relevant 
businesses in addition to Machinery Company employees, 
who have direct expertise in the automotive industry. EVs 
are more than vehicles for moving people and items. 
Through their ability to charge and discharge electricity at 
homes and buildings, they are likely to become an impor-
tant tool in supporting regional electric power networks. 
ITOCHU has strengths in fields closely related to EVs, 
namely the value chain related to energy storage systems 
and electric power retail. Furthermore, we are leveraging 
the Company’s comprehensive strength to steadily expand 
the business by utilizing solar power generation for EVs at 
ITOCHU ENEX CO., LTD., etc., and installing charging 
equipment at our FamilyMart stores. ITOCHU’s concept of 
EV possibilities and our peripheral businesses are what the 
president of the automobile manufacturer needed. After 
multiple discussions, ITOCHU was chosen as a partner, 
and an alliance was built to provide various functions 
needed for the introduction and spread of EVs. General 
trading companies typically have walls between each of 
its organizations. But because I am the President & COO, 
these walls are irrelevant to me. I am not bound by partic-
ular industries or products, and I will continue to expand 
our businesses by breaking down organizational walls 
together with employees to create businesses rooted in 
a market-oriented perspective that identifies customer 
changes and needs.
  The second wall is communication. After COVID-19 
pandemic-related restrictions were lifted, there has been 
an increase in the number of dinners and drinks among 
employees. This might be an outdated idea, but for 
ITOCHU, which considers people to be its greatest man-
agement resource, I believe these shared meals and other 
opportunities to meet socially allow employees to openly 
discuss business and their passionate ideas about the 
future help to build bonds of trust internally and facilitate 
the smooth execution of our businesses. Given the result 
of the engagement with junior employees, effective work 
styles are needed now. It is important to deepen relation-
ships and enhance the quality of our internal communica-
tions. At the time I joined ITOCHU, we had the luxury of 
taking time to learn the business by watching the senior 
employees around us. But today, due to time constraints, 
I guess many employees are solely focused on the tasks 
directly in front of them, and do not take the time to 
 converse with others about various topics. I believe 
Returning to the Front Lines
We have achieved two consecutive years of consolidated 
net profit of over ¥800.0 billion since I became President 
& COO. But honestly speaking, this was partially thanks 
to yen depreciation and high resource prices. To ensure 
the ¥800.0 billion profit level becomes a solid foundation, 
we must not become complacent with our current situa-
tion, nor should we stand still. Going forward, we will 
build a robust earnings base as we recognize FYE 2024 
to be an extremely important year for our growth invest-
ment strategy, given the unprecedentedly volatile nature 
that it is important for supervisors to not simply lead 
their subordinates by example, but to carefully explain 
expected roles, skills, and future visions, while showing 
and training them how to solve problems. Once subordi-
nates understand the expectations placed on them by 
supervisors they can trust, they can go out to the front 
lines and find a sense of fulfillment in their work. This 
sense of fulfillment in turn will surely allow them to 
become absorbed in their work. Over ITOCHU’s long his-
tory of more than 160 years, the tradition of succession, 
where people we have trained go on to train the next 
generation, has become strong. I will continue to tear 
down communication barriers and work in unison with 
the entire Company to expand our business.
  The third and final wall was within my own self. I had 
primarily been involved in sales and marketing. Therefore, 
I was relatively unfamiliar with the realm of IR activities. 
Consequently, my responses to questions from analysts 
and investors were simple and not in depth, due in part 
to my assumption that I needed to deploy specialized ter-
minology, and give official answers as a firm. Against this 
backdrop, I received advice from an analyst who said, 
“You should be more yourself, you do not need to focus 
on small details. I prefer to hear your own ideas and 
views.” I figured the field of IR was a unique and highly 
specialized realm. However, speaking frankly using my 
own words is actually just an extension of the sales 
capacity I had engaged in up until then. By breaking 
down the wall within my own self and communicating my 
own ideas, I will continue to strengthen my bonds of trust 
within the capital markets.
of the current business environment. We will maximize 
synergies through our hands-on management approach, 
and by leveraging the lessons learned from past mis-
takes. At the same time, we will continue to pursue our 
growth investments. Furthermore, I would like to thank all 
our stakeholders for their support until now, and look for-
ward to your continued support in our future endeavors.  
 Page 65 Special Feature 2: Polishing Our Existing 
(
Business and New Steppingstones)
14
15
