Business Investment
■ Business Investment Process
Along with strategic business alliances, business investment is an important means of creating and expanding busi-
nesses. To actively promote strategic investments in areas of strength in a timely manner, we choose the optimal struc-
ture from a wide range of methods, such as establishing a wholly owned subsidiary, implementing joint investment with 
partners, and participating in management through M&As or converting to a consolidated subsidiary. As our investments 
have become larger and our growth investments have accumulated in recent years, we have been identifying various 
risks and thoroughly scrutinizing the appropriateness of business plans and acquisition prices, while our administrative 
divisions have been utilizing their expertise and cumulative know-how to conduct even more stringent inspections. After 
executing each investment, we work to maximize the investee’s corporate value and to expand trading profits and divi-
dends received by fully utilizing our Groupwide capabilities and conducting hands-on management. Also, to enhance 
business earnings and exit quickly from low-efficiency assets, we are further strengthening monitoring procedures cen-
tered on instituting more rigorous exit conditions and thoroughly implementing periodic business investment reviews.  
In addition, through cross-divisional internal training across Division Companies, we share the lessons learned from 
reviewing past investment failures, thereby endeavoring to enhance the success rates of future investments.
Investment Decisions
Sharing the Lessons Learned
Asset Replacement
Decision-Making Process
We have established a multilayered decision-making process that achieves quick decision-making by giving a cer-
tain level of discretion to the Division Companies while striving to pursue investment return and curb investment risk.
Division Companies
Applicants (responsible divisions)
Administrative divisions
…Opinion based on risk analysis
Division Company Management Committee (DMC) Deliberation
Division Company President
Decision
Investment Consultative Committee*
Related administrative divisions express their opinions from 
various specialized perspectives regarding the application 
made by the applicants. Following careful discussion at the 
DMC, the Division Company President makes a final decision.
If the project needs further consideration and screening in 
terms of profitability and strategy, the project is discussed at 
the Investment Consultative Committee prior to the HMC.
*  The Investment Consultative Committee is chaired by the CFO, 
its vice-chairperson is the CSO, and its core members are the 
CAO, the CDO·CIO, and the General Managers of the Corporate 
Planning & Administration, Legal, General Accounting Control, 
Finance, and Global Risk Management divisions. Meetings are 
also attended by one full-time Audit & Supervisory Board 
Member.
Headquarters Management Committee (HMC)
Projects that exceed the Division Company President’s author-
ity must be approved by the HMC.
Board of Directors
Of the projects approved by the HMC, projects of quantitative 
and qualitative significance must be approved by the Board of 
Directors.
Points for Making Decisions
Investment Purpose 
and Formulation of 
Growth Strategies
Verification of 
Business Plan 
Appropriateness
Compliance with 
Investment Criteria
Risk Analysis
Verification of 
Internal Control 
Status
Setting Exit 
Conditions
Thoroughly Verifying 
Appropriateness of Business 
Plan
•  Scrutinizing business plans 
before making a new invest-
ment (including sensitivity 
analysis)
•  Concrete countermeasures for 
downward divergence from 
original plan (including setting 
of exit measures)
Investment Criteria
•  Investment efficiency based 
on Net Present Value (NPV) 
calculated from investee’s free 
cash flows: When calculating 
NPV, about 70 hurdle rates (by 
country) are used according to 
industry, taken into consider-
ation of the Company's cost 
of capital (8%).
•  Cash inflows into ITOCHU, 
such as dividends received and 
earnings from trade activities
•  Scale of investee’s earnings
ESG Risk Evaluation
•  Evaluate in advance the 
impact on the environment, 
society, etc., as well as the 
corporate governance status 
of the investment target using 
an ESG checklist composed 
of 28 items
•  Conduct multifaceted ESG 
assessments, including on-site 
surveys, to prevent environ-
mental pollution and other 
problems among Group  
companies even following 
investment
Setting Exit Conditions
 •  Setting clear and feasible exit 
measures before making 
investment 
Clear exit conditions: 
Setting quantitative exit condi-
tions that, in principle, call for 
exiting from the investment if 
conditions are met 
Feasible exit measures: 
Obtaining advance agreement 
with partners on exit condi-
tions, etc.
 Page 60  Exit Criteria for Business 
Investment
“Unforgettable” Training Based on Cases of Investment Failures
We internally share the lessons learned from analyzing past investment 
failures with the aim of increasing the strength and rigor of our mea-
sures to “prevent” unforeseen impairment losses and other negative 
consequences. In FYE 2023, we conducted five training sessions with 
specific examples, in which a large number of employees from busi-
ness divisions and administrative divisions participated.
(
 Page 60 The Four Lessons for Investments)
Promoting replacement of low-efficiency assets that meet exit criteria 
for business investment as well as businesses that have lost strategic 
significance
(
the Business Environment (Belong Inc.)) 
 Page 64 Asset Replacement That Took Advantage of Changes in 
Control of Cash: Continuously focus on our policy to maintain positive 
core free cash flows after deducting shareholder returns
Measures after Investees Met Exit Criteria for Business Investment
We review our policies for holding business investments annually and carefully confirm the significance of holding them based on comprehensive 
consideration of the individual circumstances of each investment, industry characteristics, and other factors. We then implement asset replacement 
with respect to businesses that have low-efficiency, exit early from businesses that are significantly below targets set at the time of investment, and 
reduce / restructure the operations of loss-making companies.
  After the review of policies for holding business investments, administrative divisions periodically monitor the implementation status of exits as well 
as improvement measures and provide support to ensure the implementation of measures in accordance with the policies.
Business Investment to Be Exited
Business Investment to Be Held Continuously
Exit progress is monitored, and each Division Company reports on 
progress to the CFO monthly.
Improvement measures are advanced. At the periodic review for busi-
ness investment in the following fiscal year, the progress of improvement 
plans is checked, and the holding policy is then carefully reanalyzed.
HMC
HMC approval is required if a Division Company’s policy is continuing to hold a business investment that meets exit criteria for business 
investment. In conducting HMC deliberations, the ALM Committee* conducts prior deliberations on the appropriateness of the Division 
Company’s retention policy and the possibility of exit implementation.
*  The ALM (Asset Liability Management) Committee is chaired by the CFO, and its core members are the General Managers of the 
Corporate Planning & Administration, General Accounting Control, Finance, and Global Risk Management divisions. Meetings are also 
attended by one full-time Audit & Supervisory Board Member.
DMC
After verifying the appropriateness of improvement plans for low-efficiency business investments that meet exit criteria for business 
investment, the significance of holding respective business investments is carefully analyzed in the context of the Division Company’s 
strategies, and a decision on holding policy is made by the Division Company’s President.
Investees Met Exit Criteria for Business Investment
 Page 60
Periodic Monitoring (Including periodic review for business investment)
In addition to conducting a review one year after investment, we conduct periodic review for all business investment annually to review policies from qualita-
tive (strategic significance, etc.) and quantitative (profit scale, investment efficiency, etc.) perspectives. Also, we formulate improvement measures for group 
companies and affiliates with issues related to deficits or dividend payouts, and we follow up on the progress of such companies throughout the year.
Business 
Divisions
Administrative 
Divisions
Hands-On Management
Execution of 
Investment
Enhancing corporate value  
continuously through collaboration 
between business divisions and  
administrative divisions
After executing business investments, we dispatch personnel from our business 
divisions and administrative divisions to the frontline operations and key posi-
tions of investee companies. Through hands-on management that utilizes the 
individual capabilities of personnel, we enhance the corporate value of investee 
companies and create synergies that increase our comprehensive strength.  
 Page 68 Polishing and Further Expanding the Earnings Base of the North 
(
American Construction Materials Business through a Hands-on Management Style)
58
58
58
59
59
59
03
