Corporate Governance
■ Skills Matrix of Corporate Officers and Structure of Advisory Committees
ITOCHU’s corporate officers, regardless of whether they are inside or outside, bring their knowledge, experience, and 
high level of insight in their respective fields to management. The areas in which Inside Directors have knowledge and 
. To fully utilize the professional perspectives and high level of insight of each 
experience are indicated by the symbol 
outside officer and Full-time Audit & Supervisory Board Member, the areas in which they are expected to make a particu-
lar  contribution are indicated by the symbol 
, after consultation with each officer.
*1  In addition to the members shown below, the General Manager of the Human Resources & General Affairs Division is a member of the Women’s Advancement Committee.
*2  Harufumi Mochizuki and Atsuko Muraki, both of whom are former Outside Directors of the Company; Kotaro Ohno, former Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member of the 
Company; and Shotaro Yachi provide advice on the business management of the Company in their capacities as members of the Advisory Board, enabling their extensive 
 experience and expertise to be utilized in the business management of the Company.
Name
Title
Gender
All Aspects of 
Management
Global
Marketing / Sales
Self-Transformation / 
Digital Transformation
SDGs & ESG
Health & Medical Care
Finance, Accounting & 
Risk Management
Human Resource 
Strategy
Internal Control & Legal 
Affairs / Compliance
Principal Specialized Area of Experience / Area in Which Officers Are Expected to Make a Particular Contribution
Governance, 
Nomination and 
Remuneration 
Committee
Women’s 
Advancement 
Committee*1
Masahiro Okafuji
Chairman & CEO
Keita Ishii
President & COO
Fumihiko 
Kobayashi
Tsuyoshi 
Hachimura
Director
Director
Hiroyuki Tsubai
Director
Hiroyuki Naka
Director
Masatoshi Kawana Outside Director
Makiko Nakamori
Outside Director
Kunio Ishizuka
Outside Director
Akiko Ito
Outside Director
Makoto Kyoda
Yoshiko Matoba
Kentaro Uryu
Tsutomu Fujita
Kumi Kobayashi
Full-time Audit & Supervisory 
Board Member
Full-time Audit & Supervisory 
Board Member
Outside Audit & Supervisory 
Board Member
Outside Audit & Supervisory 
Board Member
Outside Audit & Supervisory 
Board Member
Main Role, Career History, Qualifications, etc.
President, Textile Company;
President & CEO, ITOCHU Corporation
President, Energy & Chemicals Company,  
ITOCHU Corporation
General Manager of Human Resources & General 
Affairs Division; Chief Administrative Officer,  
ITOCHU Corporation
General Manager of Finance Division;  
Chief Financial Officer, ITOCHU Corporation
CEO for Africa Bloc; CEO for Europe Bloc;  
President, Machinery Company, ITOCHU Corporation
General Manager of Corporate Planning & 
Administration Division; Chief Strategy Officer; Chief 
Digital & Information Officer, ITOCHU Corporation
Vice-president of Tokyo Women’s Medical University 
Hospital; Doctor of Medicine
Certified Public Accountant in Japan
President and CEO / Chairman,  
Isetan Mitsukoshi Holdings Ltd.
Commissioner, Consumer Affairs Agency
CFO, Food Company, ITOCHU Corporation
General Manager of Research & Public Relations 
Division, General Manager of Human Resources & 
General Affairs Division, ITOCHU Corporation
Managing Partner, URYU & ITOGA;  
Attorney-At-Law in Japan
Vice Chairman and a board member, Citigroup 
Global Markets Japan Inc.
Certified Public Accountant in Japan; 
Certified Public Tax Accountant in Japan
Reasons for Selection of Principal Specialized Area of Experience /  
Area in Which Officers Are Expected to Make a Particular Contribution
Area
All Aspects of 
Management
Global
Reasons for Selection
ITOCHU is a general trading company that operates in diverse business sectors. The oversight of business  operations requires 
knowledge of this area in order to participate in discussions about business plans and strategies that can enhance corporate 
value based on the spirit of “Sampo-yoshi.”
Knowledge of this area based on understanding different cultures and geopolitics is required because ITOCHU operates on a 
global scale as a general trading company.
Marketing / Sales
Knowledge of these areas is required because promotion of “earn” measures is a key element of ITOCHU’s  operations, which 
depend on leveraging sales capabilities as a “Merchant,” from a market-oriented perspective.
Self-Transformation / 
Digital Transformation
SDGs & ESG
ITOCHU realizes sustained growth by drawing on comprehensive strengths as a general trading company accompanied by 
self-transformation in a flexible manner that reflects changes in the external environment. ITOCHU does not make DX itself a 
target. Instead, by self-transformation, ITOCHU steadily builds up individual projects that are expected to swiftly contribute to 
profit namely those that optimize supply chains, etc. while leveraging existing business foundations. Knowledge of these areas 
is required for taking these actions.
ITOCHU aims for sustained growth with a commitment to capitalism with greater emphasis on serving all stakeholders, which 
is “Sampo-yoshi capitalism.” ITOCHU sets to solve the seven identified material issues through business operations, including 
addressing climate change, to contribute to accomplishing the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Consequently, knowl-
edge of these areas is required.
Health & Medical Care
People is the most valued management resource of ITOCHU. Developing capability and enhancing the health is essential for 
maintaining a powerful workforce that can fulfill our Guideline of Conduct: “I am One with Infinite Missions.” Consequently, 
knowledge of these areas is required.
Finance, Accounting & 
Risk Management
Sustained growth requires strong financial foundation, accurate financial reports, and the analysis of risks when examining 
M&A and other projects. A quantitative framework of administrative divisions which support business divisions is also essential. 
Consequently, knowledge of these areas is required for constantly implementing the “earn, cut, prevent” principles.
Human Resource 
Strategy
ITOCHU clearly identifies human resources as a key component of management strategy. Knowledge of this area is required in 
order to effectively implement various initiatives, such as work-style reforms to enhance corporate value.
Internal Control & Legal 
Affairs / Compliance
ITOCHU maintains an appropriate structure for the monitoring and audit of management in order to ensure appropriate and 
efficient execution of operation. Knowledge of these areas is required in order to make constant improvements to this structure 
and implement “prevent” measures.
 Chair 
 Member 
 Observer
Demonstrating the Functions of an Outside Officer
ITOCHU’s outside officers comprise diverse human resources who can offer effective 
advice for promoting management strategies based on their wide-ranging experience, 
including lawyers, accountants, business management experienced professional, doc-
tors, etc. Outside officers fulfill monitoring and supervisory functions, through the eyes of 
society and general shareholders, while leveraging the strengths gained from their own 
individual experience. They offer useful advice on highly unique measures directly con-
nected to management strategies, such as health management and the establishment 
of the Women’s Advancement Committee.
I have been engaged in rule-making from the standpoint of public administration, 
since my time as Commissioner of the Consumer Affairs Agency, with a focus on “pro-
tecting” consumers. The main areas I covered were related to people’s everyday lives, 
such as housing administration that is strongly connected people’s lives, as well as 
regional revitalization rooted in the local community. Notably, personal consumption 
underpins around 50% of Japan’s GDP. I believe the outlook for the Japanese economy 
is directly tied to the expansion of high-quality consumer spending. Starting from the 
government’s commitment to consumer protection, both consumers and companies 
have worked together on co-creation and the promotion of consumer-oriented manage-
ment that enhances social value. “Sampo-yoshi,” which ITOCHU embodies, is similar to 
the consumer-oriented management I have promoted through listening to the voice of 
consumers. Going forward, I will leverage the expertise and experience I gained through 
consumer affairs, etc. to provide useful advice, thereby contributing to the sustainable 
development of ITOCHU.
Akiko Ito
Outside Director
Ms. Ito served as Commissioner of the 
Consumer Affairs Agency after playing other 
vital roles. As Director-General of the 
Housing Bureau, she became the first 
female Director in the Ministry of Land, 
Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. 
Subsequently, she served as Councillor in 
the Cabinet Secretariat, as well as Director 
General in the Secretariat of the 
Headquarters for Overcoming Population 
Decline and Vitalizing Local Economy in 
Japan. She brings extensive knowledge on 
consumer issues. She assumed her 
 position as a member of the Board of 
Directors at ITOCHU in June 2023 and was 
appointed to the Governance, Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee in FYE 2024.
88
89
