CEO MESSAGE
In this era of uncertainty, we need to remain keenly 
aware of our business fundamentals. As we secure 
a firm foundation for our business, we will steadily lay 
the steppingstones for our rise to the next profit stage.
In FYE 2023, we achieved more than ¥800.0 billion in consolidated net profit for the second year in a row, 
and worked diligently to establish a firm foothold for our target level of ¥800.0 billion in consolidated net 
profit. FYE 2024 will mark the final year of “Brand-new Deal 2023.” With an eye to the eventual normaliza-
tion of natural resource prices and foreign exchange rates, we will further enhance our superiority as we 
steadily prepare and implement strategies for the next profit stage.
Masahiro Okafuji
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
Full Steam Ahead
Speeches by leaders can sometimes be less than inspir-
ing. I believe one reason for this is that people just read 
the materials prepared by secretariat staff, making it hard 
to emotionally connect with the audience and so they 
get bored.
  When I communicate with someone, I want them to 
remember what I say, even if it is just a little bit. Therefore, 
I do not just ask the secretariat to prepare my speeches, 
and instead pay special attention and take the time to 
thoroughly think each story through, while at the same 
time also listening to the opinions of various people. For 
example, in order to get people interested during share-
holder and investor meetings, or at our General Meeting 
of Shareholders, and even in this annual report, I prepare 
throughout the year by writing down comments in my 
personal journal regarding events and insights that strike 
me as notable, and carefully review my comments for use 
in my various communications.
I believe that the words and attitudes of a company’s 
top management can set the tone for the entire company 
and its overall image. As an example, I carefully turn off 
the electricity in my office when not needed, and neatly 
organize chairs in our meeting rooms, not just the one in 
which I sat. Some people may question the need for a 
company’s CEO to put so much thought and effort into 
such details. However, I have a growing sense of urgency 
to fully immerse myself in my management role and pay 
close attention to details, particularly as ITOCHU expands 
in scale. And while ITOCHU is not a privately held com-
pany, I, as the leader of the Company’s management, 
maintain a mindset that I am responsible for all of the var-
ious aspects of our business with a resolution as strong 
as that of an owner of a privately held company.
In March 2023, ITOCHU’s credit rating was upgraded 
to A2 by Moody’s, which is one of the most influential 
credit rating agencies, thus achieving the highest rating 
among general trading companies from all agencies. This 
in itself was of course very positive, but we must not 
forget our past experience of being downgraded, which 
caused us to feel like we were tumbling down a hill 
toward a pit full of uncertainty. In February 1999, our 
rating from Moody’s was downgraded to Ba1, which is 
below investment grade, and then a step further to Ba2 
in October, and then to Ba3 in December. Thus, our 
rating sank like a stone in the course of less than a year. 
Furthermore, it took almost 20 years for our rating to 
recover to A in November 2017. We could in an instant 
lose the high acclaim and solid business performance we 
have established over many years if we rest on our lau-
rels. And while I am well aware of my tendency to worry 
excessively, I am determined to move full steam ahead at 
all times.
