Initiatives to Promote Sustainability
■ Sustainability Promotion Flow
■ Identification Process for Material Issues and Incorporation into Action Plans
Under the ITOCHU Group Sustainability Policy, which was established in accordance with ITOCHU’s corporate mission 
and changes in the external environment, the Company promotes sustainability initiatives systematically throughout 
its organization. Of particular note, each Division Company and administrative division incorporates ITOCHU’s material 
issues, which are identified as issues to be addressed with priority, into Sustainability Action Plans. We will continue to 
sustainably enhance corporate value and resolve social issues at the same time through our business  activities, namely 
trade and business investment, while ensuring that we maintain and improve profitability.
Policy
Material Issues
Business Activities
Corporate Mission & 
Guideline of Conduct
Corporate 
Mission
Society
“Sampo-yoshi”
Buyer
Seller
Code of 
Ethical Conduct
The ITOCHU Group 
Sustainability Policy
Environmental Policy
Guideline of Conduct
Human Rights Policy
I am One with 
Infinite Missions
Sustainability Action 
Guidelines for 
Supply Chains
Basic Activity 
Guidelines on 
Social Contribution
Evolve Businesses through 
Technological Innovation
Address Climate Change 
(Contribute to a 
Decarbonized Society)
Develop a Rewarding 
Work Environment
Respect and 
Consider Human Rights
Contribute to Healthier and 
More Affluent Lifestyles
Ensure Stable Procurement 
and Supply
Maintain Rigorous 
Governance Structures
Plan
Act
Do
Check
Sustainability Action Plans
Management Resources
Financial Capital / Human and Organizational Capital / 
Business Know-How / Business Portfolio / Trust and 
Creditworthiness / Client and Partner Assets / Natural 
Resources / Relationships with Society
Medium-Term Management Plan
New Facilities Opened at the ITOCHU SDGs STUDIO
In July 2022, ITOCHU opened the ITOCHU SDGs STUDIO KIDS PARK. Designed for 
both parents and children, this facility allows children, who will lead the future, to expe-
rience our concept of the SDGs through play. This free facility where kids can safely 
play is garnering attention as the 300 reservation slots for each day are always filled. 
As of March 31, 2023, around 50,000 people had visited the facility.
  Furthermore, in July 2023, we opened the ITOCHU SDGs STUDIO RESTAURANT 
Hoshi no Kitchen, a restaurant that provides a “delicious, enjoyable, and sustainable” 
dining experience. Featuring classic dishes loved by everyone from children to adults 
made with food ingredients including those which are handled by ITOCHU Group 
companies such as Dole and FUJI OIL CO., LTD., etc., the restaurant allows visitors to 
casually experience sustainable food initiatives.
  Going forward, at the ITOCHU SDGs STUDIO, by enhancing contact points with 
children and consumers, we will continue providing opportunities to interact with and 
learn about various SDGs.
Since ITOCHU first identified its material issues in FYE 2014, the Company has been continuously reviewing them based on 
trends in the international community and the expectations of stakeholders. In FYE 2019, we revised our material issues by 
further reflecting ESG perspectives and incorporating elements from health management and the consumer sector, which 
are our fields of strength. By incorporating material issues into business operations, our revised material issues have 
become better suited to helping achieve the Paris Agreement and the SDGs adopted by the United Nations.
  Furthermore, as a specific initiative, each Division Company and administrative division incorporates the identified material 
issues into Sustainability Action Plans for each business field. First, each organization identifies risks and opportunities and 
social impacts in each business field, and then sets medium- to long-term targets, draws up action plans with measures 
and performance indicators for achieving these targets, reviews progress, and finally reports achievements to the 
Sustainability Committee, with the intention of making steady progress through a PDCA cycle.
Identification of issues based on international guidelines, etc.
Identification Process for 
Material Issues
Ranking of importance in light of Companywide risks and opportunities
Review by the Sustainability Advisory Board, including outside experts
Deliberations by the Sustainability Committee,  
determination of material issues by the HMC* and the Board of Directors
Periodically review material issues  
as appropriate
Understand major changes in  
society and business environment
Material Issues
Related SDGs
Evolve Businesses through Technological Innovation
We are creating new value by proactively exploring new technologies as we adapt 
to changing industry structures by venturing beyond existing business frameworks.
Address Climate Change (Contribute to a Decarbonized Society)
We are striving to adapt to the impact of climate change on our business activities, 
while also promoting business activities that contribute to a decarbonized society 
and seeking to reduce GHG emissions.
Develop a Rewarding Work Environment
We are developing a work environment where all employees feel proud and moti-
vated, and where they can leverage their diversity to demonstrate their abilities to 
the fullest.
Respect and Consider Human Rights
We are promoting respect and consideration for human rights in our business 
operations and ensuring stability in our business, while also contributing to the 
development of local communities.
Contribute to Healthier and More Affluent Lifestyles
We are striving to improve the quality of life for all people and are contributing to 
the creation of healthier and more affluent lifestyles.
Ensure Stable Procurement and Supply
We are contributing to the creation of a recycling-oriented society by giving consid-
eration to biodiversity and other environmental issues while undertaking the effec-
tive utilization of resources as well as their stable procurement and supply, in line 
with demand in each country.
Maintain Rigorous Governance Structures
We are ensuring appropriate and efficient execution of operations through indepen-
dent, objective, and effective oversight of management by the Board of Directors 
and increased transparency in decision-making.
Please refer to ITOCHU’s website for detailed information (in Japanese only).
Identify (1) risks and opportunities and (2) social impacts in each business field
ITOCHU SDGs STUDIO KIDS PARK
 https://www.itochu.co.jp/ja/kidspark/
ITOCHU SDGs STUDIO RESTAURANT Hoshi no Kitchen
 https://www.itochu.co.jp/ja/hoshinokitchen/
PDCA Cycle for Action Plans
Annual review
(Each organization reviews and then 
reports progress to the Sustainability 
Committee for approval)
Each organization creates  
action plans
Execution of action plans
76
* Headquarters Management Committee
77
