An Analysis of Performance under Frontier-2006
13
Strict control of net interest-bearing debt resulted in a ¥260.0 billion decrease over the two-year
period of Frontier-2006. Further, stockholders’equity increased by a significant amount, reaching
¥896.2 billion at year-end, compared with ¥510.4 billion at the end of March 2005. As a result, the
NET DER declined to 1.8 times, a considerable improvement of 1.9 points from the
level at the beginning of the plan and representing the attainment of solid management. 
This analysis shows that the quantitative targets set at the beginning of Frontier-2006
were achieved. Moreover, the well-balanced growth of Division Companies proves that the entire
ITOCHU Group adhered to the principles of “Shift to Aggressive Business” and “Enhancement of
Solid Management.”
*1 Excludes the effect of impairment adjustments for FamilyMart Co., Ltd.
*2 Includes the tax effect of the loss recognized on investment in Orico
QUALITATIVE ANALYSIS
Net investment over the two years of the plan reached approximately ¥310 billion, significantly higher
than the initial target of ¥200 billion. About 25% of this amount was allocated to the Consumer-
Related sector, 25% to the Natural Resource/Energy-Related sector, and the remaining 50% to vari-
ous other sectors, including machinery, IT, finance, and chemicals. We believe this to be a
well-balanced allocation of investment.
Under the Frontier-2006 policy of strengthening vertical linkage, Division Companies worked 
to increase revenue and earnings by identifying core segments and accelerating the allocation of
resources to those segments. At the same time, ITOCHU promoted horizontal integration for proj-
ects spanning Division Company boundaries in the Consumer-Related and Natural Resource/
Energy-Related sectors, where it has considerable strengths. 
In the Consumer-Related sector, we promoted the global development of our brand business in
textiles. At the same time, in food-related business, we deployed our SIS*3 strategy on a global basis,
and, by making NIPPON ACCESS, INC., a consolidated subsidiary and merging it with Nishino
Trading Co., Ltd., we created one of the largest food wholesale operations in Japan. 
In the Natural Resource/Energy-Related sector, we implemented several initiatives aimed at
tapping into growing worldwide demand for natural and energy resources to achieve solid gains in
revenue and earnings. We continued to invest in our iron ore project in Western Australia to expand
production capacity. We entered the retail natural gas business in the United States and acquired
equity interests in gas fields in the Gulf of Mexico. Also, production expanded smoothly at the ACG
oil field development project in the Azerbaijan Republic.
In other sectors, in the automobile-related business, we strengthened our capital partnership with
Isuzu Motors Limited and formed a joint venture, Isuzu Network Company Limited, to reinforce
domestic sales. Also, we developed business in the area of life cycle process management for commer-
cial vehicles. In addition, we made an investment in the North American controlling subsidiary of
Akebono Brake Industry Co., Ltd. In the Life & Healthcare sector, we entered the field of preventive
medicine, where we envisage growth stemming from Japan’s low birthrate and aging population. In
chemical products, our largest investment in China, the Ningbo PTA plant, started up production of
high purified terephthalic acid (PTA).
*3 SIS (Strategic Integrated System): A supply and demand system based on customer needs that seamlessly links
upstream food resource development and processing, midstream distribution, and downstream retail and sales.
CONCLUSION
In quantitative terms, ITOCHU greatly exceeded the plan’s targets and, therefore, confirmed its position
as a highly profitable corporate group. In qualitative terms, the Company has steadily developed its
existing businesses and advanced into new sectors to set the stage for increased revenue and earnings.
After reviewing our results and achievements under Frontier-2006, we conclude that the
objective of “Becoming a Highly Profitable Corporate Group Achieving over ¥100
Billion in Consolidated Net Income in a Steady and Sustainable Manner” was achieved.
