Doubling Profits with Super A&P Strategy
Based on the progress made under A&P-2002, we
began implementing Super A&P-2004, a new two-
year mid-term plan covering the period from April
1, 2003 to March 31, 2005.
Under the new plan, we will further enhance the
strategies laid out in the previous A&P plan in order
to more fully satisfy our customers, stockholders,
employees and society as a whole. We plan to con-
tinue strengthening our existing designated profit-
driving A&P segments (information and multimedia,
consumer and retail related, natural resource relat-
ed, financial services, North America and Asia).
We also regard the consumer and retail related sec-
tor as a “super powerful” segment in which
ITOCHU has a strong market presence.
With the new plan, at the same time, we also
regard the consumer and retail related sector as a
“super powerful” segment in which ITOCHU has a
strong market presence, and the China business,
information and media, solutions, and natural
resources as “attractive” businesses to strengthen.
Further, as a driving tool for the future, we intend to
develop new businesses that are related to innova-
tive technologies in fields such as biotechnology
and nanotechnology.
For the two-year period under the new plan,
we intend to increase the ratio of A&P assets to
total assets from 50% to 74% including assets
in the newly nominated “highly-efficient” seg-
ment from fiscal year 2004, and consolidated
net income from A&P segments from ¥50.7 bil-
lion to ¥88.0 billion. To reach these goals, we will
advance our “selection and concentration” strategy
by analyzing the business efficiency of 120 busi-
ness units and applying one of three strategies:
“profit doubling,” “2% & 8%” (for semi-core busi-
ness units in which we target an ROA of 2% and a
risk return index (RRI) of 8%), or “reduction or exit.”
We intend to both increase profits and strengthen
our financial position by reducing total assets and
4 | ITOCHU Corporation.
aggressively reallocating assets. 
Initiatives to Bolster Super A&P Strategy 
We have set out four major initiatives for Super
A&P-2004.
Executive Vice President, Makoto Kato, has taken
on the responsibility for supervising the consumer
and retail related sector, our designated “super
powerful” segment in which ITOCHU enjoys an
overwhelming competitive advantage. He will man-
age a cross-company project system that encom-
passes the three fields of textiles; foods; and
chemicals, forest products, and general merchan-
dise; and will work to inte-
grate all businesses that are
closely related to daily con-
sumer needs. ITOCHU is
admittedly one of the largest
textile companies in the
world. Our food business
boasts a top-tier domestic
distribution and wholesale network, and our forest
products and general merchandise business has a
strong presence in the construction and housing
materials market. In addition, each of these busi-
nesses is characterized by a vertical synthesis of
upstream, midstream and downstream business-
es; that is, the integration of raw materials procure-
ment and production, wholesaling, distribution and
processing, and retailing. We have decided that it
is time for us to leverage the sizable synergies that
potentially exist in the three fields, and to strength-
en horizontal syntheses through inter-segment
consumer related projects.
For our second initiative, we set up the China
Market Global Development Office to bolster our
overall China-related business. The word “global”
was included in the department name to indicate
that our global strategy is centered on China. In
other words, all ITOCHU teams in Japan, the U.S.,
and Europe come together as one to tackle busi-
nesses related to China. This approach differs con-
siderably from the conventional business model of
trading companies, which has been based on
bilateral trade between Japan and China. ITOCHU
has a longer history in China than any other
