Since assuming the
position of president, I
have continuously
emphasized the impor-
tance of a “clean, honest
and beautiful” business
attitude.
We will not, however, become complacent. The
essence of corporate governance and faithful com-
pliance does not lie in formality. Every executive and
employee must practice strict self-control, and be
aware that people tend to prioritize their own bene-
fit. Without this in mind, even
the best system would not
guarantee real improvement. 
Since assuming the posi-
tion of president, I have con-
tinuously emphasized the
importance of a “clean, hon-
est and beautiful” business
attitude. We are now entering
a growth stage in which
ethics will play greater role
than ever before. I will strive
to imprint this idea firmly in
the DNA of ITOCHU. 
Thank you very much for the trust you have placed
in us.  To reward this trust, I promise to make
ITOCHU a more attractive company to our cus-
tomers and a more powerful company for our stake-
holders.  
July 2003
Uichiro Niwa
President and Chief Executive Officer
With strong business foundations in such high-
growth areas as the consumer and retail related
segment and China-related business, ITOCHU is
aiming to become the strongest group by collabo-
rating internally and optimizing business structures.
We have an ambitious goal of
creating a group whose com-
panies rank at the top of their
respective industries and
which generates a consoli-
dated net income of ¥100 bil-
lion.  Originally, we planned to
achieve this goal by March
2005. However, given
increasing uncertainties in the
global economy, lingering
deflation in Japan and the
indeterminate impact of
SARS, we have decided to revise this plan back one
year. In fiscal year 2005, we will strive to produce
consolidated net income of ¥75 billion, prior to
this final goal.
Corporate Governance and Compliance
In order to promote greater transparency in man-
agement, we set up an Advisory Board and
strengthened the role of the Board of Corporate
Auditors. We also have in place a Group Audit
Committee, which is composed of auditors from
major group companies, to more effectively monitor
the activities of the ITOCHU Group. A Compliance
Committee led by the Chief Compliance Officer was
also established to ensure compliance with all laws,
regulations and policies. 
6 | ITOCHU Corporation.
