Quoted market prices, where available, are used to estimate
fair values of financial instruments. However fair values are
estimated using discounted cash flow technique or other
methods when quoted market prices are not available. These
estimates involve uncertainty and subjectivity, and therefore
fair values are not objectively verifiable. Changes in assump-
tions could significantly affect fair value amounts.
Current Financial Assets other than Marketable Securities
and Current Financial Liabilities:
The carrying amounts approximate fair values because of the
short maturity of these instruments.
Marketable Securities and Other Investments:
The fair values of marketable investment securities included in
“Marketable Securities” and “Other Investments” are based on
quoted market prices. The carrying amounts of non-mar-
ketable investment securities and others approximate fair val-
ues. The fair values for each category of securities is set forth
in note 3 “Marketable Securities and Investments.”
to associated companies are estimated based on the present
value of future cash flows discounted by using the current
rates of loans or receivables with similar terms, conditions and
maturities being offered to borrowers or customers with similar
credit ratings.
Long-term Debt:
The fair values of long-term debt are based on the present
value of future cash flows discounted using the current bor-
rowing rates of similar debt instruments having comparable
maturities. 
Foreign Exchange Contracts
The fair values of foreign exchange contracts are estimated
based on the quoted market prices of comparable contracts.
Currency and Interest Rate Swap Agreements:
The fair values of currency and interest rate swap agreements
are estimated using discounted cash flow technique, based on
the current swap rates with similar terms and remaining periods.
Other Non-current Receivables and Advances to Associated
Companies:
The fair values of other non-current receivables and advances
Interest Rate Option Agreements:
The fair values of interest rate option agreements are esti-
mated using option pricing model.
19. Issuance of Stock by Subsidiaries or Associated Companies
CENTURY LEASING SYSTEM, INC., an associated company,
issued 10,000,000 shares of common stock in a public offer-
ing to third parties on September 18, 2003, the date of its list-
ing on the second section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The
offering price per share was ¥752, which was lower than the
Company’s carrying value per share of the associated com-
pany’s stock.
This issuance decreased the Company’s ownership of the
associated company from 26.3% to 21.3%. The issuance of
these shares for ¥7,520 million ($71 million) was regarded as a
sale of part of the Company’s interest in the associated com-
pany and the Company recognized a loss of ¥362 million ($3
million) for the year ended March 31, 2004, which is included
in “Loss on disposal of investments and marketable securities,
including write-down.”
Excite Japan Co., Ltd., a consolidated subsidiary, issued
3,500 shares of common stock in a public offering to third
parties on November 2, 2004, the date of its listing on the
JASDAQ market. The offering price per share was
¥1,222,000, which was in excess of the Company’s carrying
value per share of the subsidiary stock.
This issuance decreased the Company and its subsidiaries’
ownership of the subsidiary from 87.3% to 76.0%. The
issuance of these shares for ¥4,277 million ($40 million) was
regarded as a sale of part of the Company’s interest in the
subsidiary and the Company recognized a gain of ¥3,043 mil-
lion ($28 million) for the year ended March 31, 2005, which is
included in “Loss on disposal of investments and marketable
securities, including write-down.”
kabu.com Securities Co., Ltd., an associated company,
issued 36,000 shares of common stock in a public offering to
third parties on March 17, 2005, the date of its listing on the
first section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The offering price
per share was ¥338,400, which was in excess of the
Company’s carrying value per share of the associated com-
pany’s stock.
This issuance decreased the Company and its subsidiary’s
ownership of the associated company from 29.7% to 26.3%.
The issuance of these shares for ¥12,182 million ($113 million)
was regarded as a sale of part of the Company’s interest in
the associated company and the Company recognized a gain
of ¥2,842 million ($26 million) for the year ended March 31,
2005, which is included in “Loss on disposal of investments
and marketable securities, including write-down.”
122
