Management Messages
COO Message
By keeping our focus firmly fixed beyond 
the current difficulties and taking 
 forward-looking preparations, we aim to 
sustainably enhance our  corporate value.
Amid this unprecedented phase brought about by COVID-19 and other recent developments, we will unflinch-
ingly maintain our steadfast efforts and continue achieving the goals we have outlined. In addition, through our 
market-oriented perspective, we will perceive changes in customers and industry structure to steadily seize 
good opportunities.
Yoshihisa Suzuki
President & Chief Operating Officer
FYE 2020: The Year the Tide Turned
In April 2019, as we were almost sure about achieving an 
historic ¥500.0 billion in consolidated net profit, we held a 
Special Headquarters Management Committee meeting to 
discuss the FYE 2020 management plan. Rather than revel 
in our major ¥500.0 billion achievement, we honed our 
gaze on the trajectory beyond ¥500.0 billion. Our discus-
sion focused on how ITOCHU could continue to steadily 
grow and what actions were needed with our organizational 
systems and human capital. We started the meeting reflect-
ing on the many ups and downs the Company has experi-
enced and what lessons could be learned. We narrowed 
these down to three major lessons. The first is not to for-
mulate long-term management plans on hypotheticals. In 
other words, we should not announce baseless quantitative 
targets, and management should emphasize its commit-
ments. The second is not to conduct management through 
excessive selection and concentration. The third is that the 
business environment will always change: Overconfidence 
is forbidden. “The higher the peak, the lower the valley.”
  Based on these lessons, we set the FYE 2020 consoli-
dated net profit plan at ¥500.0 billion, or about the same 
as the FYE 2019 results, and maintained our progressive 
dividend policy with a dividend of ¥85, an increase of ¥2. 
This was a result of emphasizing our commitment to 
achieving the numbers we promised while first establishing 
a firm foothold amid an uncertain economic outlook. 
Another contributing factor was the establishment of The 
8th Company as a new Division Company with the purpose 
of securing resilience against volatile business  environments 
and withdrawing from legacy businesses. One goal of the 
new Division Company is to enhance the corporate value of 
16
FamilyMart, which was made a subsidiary in FYE 2019, and 
strengthen the Group’s value chain by using the consum-
ers’ perspective, a “market-oriented perspective,” rather 
than our conventional product-oriented perspective. Finally, 
learning from our lesson of not using excessive selection 
and concentration, we did not alter the Division Companies 
that comprise our existing profit pillars.
In the summer of 2019, the stock market took a turn, 
which had until then been steadily advancing. It started 
with the worsening of the U.S.–China trade friction, which 
caused a drop that some said could make for another 
“unlucky August.” As the Company was strengthening its 
warning about the eventual collapse of the long sustained 
period of global economic growth, ITOCHU used this 
market shift, under the guidance of its Chairman & CEO 
Masahiro Okafuji, to redouble its efforts on the “earn, cut, 
prevent” principles, which form the foundation of ITOCHU’s 
management. Specifically, we redoubled efforts to uncover 
potential concerns and thoroughly practice our “prevent” 
principle. To prepare for further economic deterioration, 
we also decided to swiftly shift toward lean management, 
leveraging our “cut” principle.
  We began to take countermeasures ahead of other com-
panies. For example, we conducted an interim review of 
the management plan on September 9, a month earlier 
than usual. We also instilled a feeling of restraint during 
summer vacation. This was because ITOCHU, which had 
grown dramatically over the course of a decade, determined 
that it was facing a major challenge about whether it could 
keep its commitment of achieving the promised ¥500.0 
billion. Since then, the stock market fortunately recovered, 
and ITOCHU’s share price set 22 record highs. The prepa-
rations we made for that time helped us be ready when 
