Explanation of Our Business Model
In our aim of enhancing corporate value, we must expand both economic and social value. Specifically, we are working to 
expand created value (Achievement of Short-Term Targets), increase growth rate (Steppingstones to Medium- to Long-Term 
Value Creation), and lower the cost of capital (Initiatives and Systems Supporting Sustainable Growth). As a result, we will 
realize a virtuous circle as we “reinforce capital,” which is a driving force for sustainable value creation.
Achievement of Short-Term Targets 
(Steady results)
Created Value 
Corporate Value 
Driving Force for Sustainable Value 
Creation (Total capital)
Cost of Capital 
Growth Rate 
Initiatives and Systems  
Supporting Sustainable Growth 
(Reduce cost of capital)
Steppingstones to Medium- to Long-Term 
Value Creation (Sustainable growth)
Business Fundamentals and Universal Means as a Merchant
Business Fundamentals
EARN
CUT
PREVENT
Conduct trade aligning with changes  
in the world and customer needs
Reduce expenses that are not cost  
effective, reduce unnecessary 
meetings and documents
Prevent outflows due to losses on 
 receivables and impairment losses
Universal Means
Creating Added Value
Asset Strategies
We strive to stabilize commercial rights, expand trade, and 
increase the value of businesses including the companies that 
we have invested in, by leveraging the distinctive functions of 
a general trading company, continually creating added value 
from the viewpoint of our customers and the market- oriented 
perspective.
Coordination
In addition to the traditional functions of a general trading 
company, we aim to leverage client and partner assets to find 
optimal way of sales and cultivate sales routes and procure-
ment partners as we respond to various customer needs and 
strive to expand trade.
Promoting Business Management
In addition to leveraging the various functions and manage-
ment know-how we have accumulated as a general trading 
company, we take the initiative in forming business combina-
tions and alliances with Group companies, enhancing the 
competitive advantage of our investees.
Generating Synergies among Businesses
By leveraging the Group’s management resources, we maximize 
synergies between existing businesses and Group companies, 
increasing the Group’s overall corporate value.
With the strategic importance of business investment increas-
ing, we have developed and are steadily implementing asset 
strategies that emphasize investment in areas of strength, 
thorough risk management, and the pursuit of asset efficiency.
Investing in Areas of Strength
We emphasize investment in areas where we have strength, 
such as the non-resource sector, centered on consumer- 
related businesses, and in China and other parts of Asia. 
On this basis, we are working to further reinforce our com-
petitive edge.
Risk Management
In addition to managing total amount of risk by utilizing 
risk assets, we are also conducting risk management on a 
project-by-project basis through evaluation of investment effi-
ciency using a hurdle rate based on the cost of capital. In this 
manner, we also work to analyze and control the various risks 
surrounding our businesses.
Pursuing Asset Efficiency
We exit from investments that are determined to be low- 
efficiency assets from such perspectives as scale of earnings, 
investment efficiency, and strategic significance. In this way, 
we are working to maximize free cash flows by increasing 
asset efficiency and strengthening cash generation power.
31
