Driving Force for Sustainable Value Creation
The Story of Merchants
government. We took advantage of this opportunity to 
secure access to what would become a massive consumer 
market in the future. We continued working to build relations 
with China, which was undergoing economic development 
under a reform and open-door policy. In the process, we 
expanded our human network and business foundations.
strength. As Chubei Itoh I worded in “supplying the needs 
of the society” and the current Chairman & CEO, Masahiro 
Okafuji, explained that trading companies “are like water 
taking the form of the vessel in which it is carried, some-
times round, and sometimes square,” we transform our-
selves as a merchant sensitive to the needs of the times. 
Comprehensive Strength Accumulated from 
Constantly Transforming Itself
Passing on the Management Baton While Bringing 
out True Value of a History of more than 160 Years 
General trading companies, which operate in the middle 
of the value chain, are affected by trends among sellers. In 
particular, as manufacturers transitioned toward a practice 
of selling products themselves, trading companies became 
concerned that this disintermediation could be fateful for 
them. We have faced such existential crises numerous 
times, with the 1960s marked by “the notion that trading 
companies were a declining force” and the late 1970s to 
early 80s labeled as a “period of hardship for trading com-
panies.” We have successfully overcome such adversities 
by flexibly changing the form of our business. As part of 
these initiatives, we moved upstream to secure stable 
supplies of resources and product materials. At the same 
time, we invested in downstream operations, notably 
FamilyMart, to expand our customer contact points. In 
addition to this vertical expansion of the value chain, we 
shifted toward a business model that pursued added value. 
One example was our move into the brand business in the 
Textile Company in the 1970s. By entwining our business 
investments and creating businesses in a multifaceted 
and linked manner, we have built up our comprehensive 
In the late 1990s, huge holdings of underperforming assets 
led to a crisis that threatened our continued existence. 
Then-President Uichiro Niwa adopted a bold stance, 
saying “Problems created in the 20th century should be 
resolved in the 20th century.” Accordingly, in FYE 2000 we 
processed total losses of ¥400.0 billion, sweeping away 
low-efficiency and unprofitable assets. We also introduced 
a new management method, called Risk Capital 
Management and shifted funds to high-efficiency assets. 
Strengthening Our Financial Position
March 31, 1999 
NET DER:13.7 times
Net interest-bearing debt:  
Approximately ¥4.2 trillion
March 31, 2011  
NET DER: 1.4 times 
Net interest-bearing debt: Approximately ¥1.6 trillion 
Trading Companies 
as Water 
The current Chairman & CEO, Masahiro 
Okafuji, explains that ITOCHU has the 
ability to transform itself, noting that 
general trading companies “are like water 
taking the form of the vessel in which it is 
carried, sometimes round, and sometimes 
square.”  
Inherited Strengths
Individual Capabilities
Consolidated Net Profit per  
Employee (Non-Consolidated)  
¥0.12 billion (FYE 2020)
ITOCHU did not maintain free-standing stores, but 
instead cultivated a spirit of creating businesses on its 
own. This DNA and the fact of having the non-resource 
sector, with its large number of clients, as the core natu-
rally cultivated “individual capabilities.”
Earning Power in the  
Non-Resource Sector
Profits from the Non-Resource Sector  
¥378.3 billion (FYE 2020)
ITOCHU’s business originated with textiles, so we have 
traditionally been strong in the non-resource sector, par-
ticularly in areas close to consumers.
Comprehensive Strength and 
Ability of Self-transformation
Ratio of Group Companies Reporting Profits  
88.6% (FYE 2020)
With diversified business portfolio, we established a 
solid earnings base by leveraging various functions and 
business know-how we have cultivated as a general 
trading company as well as by maximizing synergies 
between businesses.
Experience and Track Record in 
China and Other Parts of Asia
Expanding Business into China  
1972
In 1972, then-President Masakazu Echigo headed a 
mission to China. He felt certain of the future of the 
consumer sector and an attempt to make an early start 
at  cultivating the Chinese market. 
24
ITOCHU Corporation
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
