As an Organizer
channels of the Ting Hsin Intemational Group, and TOCHU's raW
ITOCHU utilizes a variety ol methods to provide the capabilities
material procurement capabilities. There are many examples of
and added value necessary in the management strategies of our
how ITOCHU has served as an intermedlary in estabishing joint
parthers, such as lechnology and marketing know-how, logistics,
ventures that contribute to business expansion of the Ting Hsin
and know-how in business administration including intermal
Intemational Group and penetration to China market by our Japa-
control. In addition to providing our own capabilities, we also
nese partners. These include beverage production with Asahi
consider the optimal capital relationship with leading Japanese
Breweries, Ltd, convenience store business with FamilyMart,
companies in each area and coordinate the interests between
beverage production and sales with Kagome Co., Ltd., and premix
both parties. Thus, as an organizer that brings together various
flour produclion and sales with Nippon Flour Mills Co., Ltd.
parties, We make full use of our own capabilities and strive to
In the area of pharmaceuticals, in March 2011 Liaoning
contribute to the success of each project.
Chengda Co., Ltd., which has a pharmaceutical distribution
Our partners in China already have established sales and raw
subsidiary; Alfresa Holdings Corporation; and ITOCHU agreed
material procurement channels. However, as the living standards
on establishing comprehensive business ties. The objective of
and technical needs of consumers are changing rapidly, they
this alliance is to generate synergies between an about
Would achieve substantial benefits from the assimilation of
780-store pharmacy chaln, the largest in the northeastem
advanced manufacturing technologies, for differentiation from
region of China, and
their competitors. These technologies include the hygiene control
Japan's elficient and
and quality control technologies of Japanese companies, which
high value-added
are the best in the world.
drug distribution.
In the area offood,forinstance, ourmass-production bread
business is a good example of this process. We are advancing the
business through a three-party joint venture scheme that lever-
ages the advanced manufacturing technologies and quality con-
trol know-how of Shikishima Baking Co., Ltd. (Pasco), the sales
FamilyMart store in China
LateralDevelopmentof
SIS Strategy Focused
SIS Strategy Focused
Success Model
on the Japanese Market
on the Chinese Market
Currently, we are advancing the lateral
North Amerlca, Australla, etc.
China
development of our success models in
Prondlng rw materlals / Seourng ceso
Japan, to China by drawing fully upon
our partnerships with local companies
CGB
QTI
and our capabilities as an organizer.
COFCO
Developmer
Agrcutural
In the food business,we established a
EGT
Burra
Bureau
solid presence in the maturing domestic
market through the Strategic Integrated
System (SIS) strategy. The objective of
Japan
China
this strategy is to build a value chain that
uringlnle
iringinter
lary products
starts with customer needs by seam-
ITOCHU
ITOCHU
lessly integrating everything from food
Sugar
Rice
resource development to product pro-
cessing, marketing and distribution, and
Pima
ayoi Food
Meat
Feed Mils
ITOCHU
Longda
relail sales. Since 2002, when we con-
Packers
cluded a comprehensive strategic agree-
ment with the Ting Hsin Intemational
Fuji oil
Foods
Japan
Group, we have steadily been imple-
menting lateral development of the SIS
Strategy to the China market.
Ting Hsin
In 2007, we commenced a tie-up with
Heilongjiang Agricultural Development
ACCESS
NIPPON
ITOCHU
SHOKUHIN
SHOW-WA
ITOCHU
FRESH
1
: Consolidated Subsidiaries
LINY
:Iestment/ Business Aliance Partners
: Equity-method Affliales
27Al epo 2011
