customers’ trading activities, leasing and software services
activities. The Company and its subsidiaries recognize rev-
enues at the time that revenues are realized or realizable and
earned. Revenues are realized or realizable and earned when
all of the following criteria are met; 1) persuasive evidence of
an arrangement exists, 2) the goods have been delivered or
the services have been rendered to customers, 3) the sales
price is fixed or determinable and 4) collectibility is reasonably
assured.
The Company and its subsidiaries recognize revenues from
product sales, including wholesale, retail, manufactured prod-
uct sales, processed product sales, development of natural
resources and development and sale of real estate, at the time
the delivery conditions agreed with customers are met. These
conditions are usually considered to have been met when
goods are received by the customer, the warehouse receipts
are transferred, or the acceptance from the customer is
received. Depending on the nature of the contract, revenues
from long-term construction are accounted for by the com-
pleted contract method unless estimates of costs to complete
and the extent of progress toward completion of long-term
contracts are reasonably dependable, in which case the
Company and its subsidiaries use the percentage-of comple-
tion method.
Transactions which derive revenues from service-related
activities are originated in various fields such as financial and
logistics services, information and communications and tech-
nical support. The revenues are recognized when the con-
tracted services have been rendered to the third-party
customers pursuant to the arrangements. Transactions from
other activities of the Company and its subsidiaries include
software development and maintenance services, and leasing
aircraft, real estate, industrial machinery and other assets.
Revenues from other activities are recognized upon customer
acceptance for software development, over the contractual
period for software maintenance services, and over the terms
of the underlying leases on a straight-line basis for aircraft, real
estate, industrial machinery and other assets. 
Reporting Revenue Gross versus Net
In accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) 99-
19, “Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal versus Net as an
Agent,” the Company and its subsidiaries present certain rev-
enue transactions with corresponding cost of revenues on a
gross basis as “Sales revenue” in the consolidated statements
of operations, for transactions traded as a primary obligor in
manufacturing, processing and service rendering and for sales
with general inventory risk before customer order. The rev-
enues that are recognized on a net basis are presented as
“Trading margins and commissions on trading transactions” in
the consolidated statements of operations. The Company and
its subsidiaries retroactively adopted EITF 99-19 from the year
ended March 31, 2004, and the adoption did not have an
impact on gross trading profit, net income or loss or stock-
holders’ equity.
Trading Transactions
“Total trading transactions,” as presented in the consolidated
statements of operations, is a measure commonly used by
similar Japanese trading companies and represents gross
transaction volume of the sales contracts in which the
Company and its subsidiaries act as principal or agent. Total
trading transactions in the consolidated statements of opera-
tions are presented in accordance with Japanese accounting
practice, and are not meant as a substitute for sales or rev-
enues in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
m. Transfer to the Japanese Government of the
Substitutional Portion of Employee Pension Fund
Liabilities
The Company and certain subsidiaries transferred the substi-
tutional portion of the Employees’ Pension Funds to the
Japanese Government during the year ended March 31,
2004. In accordance with EITF 03-2, “Accounting for the
Transfer to the Japanese Government of the Substitutional
Portion of Employee Pension Fund Liabilities,” the Company
and certain subsidiaries recognized a “Settlement loss from
the transfer of the substitutional portion of the Employees’
Pension Fund” of ¥22,767 million and a “Subsidy from the
government on the transfer of the substitutional portion of the
Employees’ Pension Fund” of ¥19,606 million for the year
ended March 31, 2004.
n. Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
In accordance with SFAS 146, “Accounting for Costs
Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities,” the Company and
its subsidiaries recognize and measure a liability for the cost
associated with exit or disposal activities at its fair value in the
period when the liability is incurred rather than when an exit or
disposal plan is committed.
o. Income Taxes
The Company and its subsidiaries utilize an asset and liability
approach to accounting for income taxes in accordance with
SFAS 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes.”
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the esti-
mated future tax consequences attributable to temporary dif-
ferences between the tax basis of assets or liabilities and
reported amounts in its financial statements, and net operating
loss carryforwards. Deferred tax assets or liabilities are mea-
sured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable
income in the years in which those temporary differences are
expected to be recovered or settled. The effect of a change in
tax rates on deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized in
earnings for the period that includes the enactment date. A
valuation allowance is provided to the portion of a deferred tax
asset for which it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will
not be realized.
p. Net Income (Loss) Per Share
Basic net income (loss) per share is computed dividing by the
weighted-average number of common shares outstanding
(excluding treasury stock) for the period. Diluted net income
per share is computed giving effect to all dilutive potential
common shares that were outstanding during the period.
q. Comprehensive Income (Loss)
In accordance with SFAS 130, “Reporting Comprehensive
Income,” the Company and its subsidiaries report and present
comprehensive income and loss and its components (rev-
enues, expenses, gains and losses) in a full set of general-pur-
pose financial statements. Comprehensive income and loss
97
