Number of Employees
As of March 31, 2005
Consolidated* 
Non-consolidated 
2,461
373
*The number of consolidated employees is based on 
actual working employees excluding temporary staff.
Number of Subsidiaries and Associates
Domestic
Overseas
Products & Services
51
41
• Structuring and sales of financial
products • Agency and consulting
services of insurance and reinsurance •
Warehousing • Logistics services •
Developments and operations of real
estate
Organization (As of April 1, 2005)
Finance, Realty, 
Insurance & 
Logistics Services 
Company
Planning & Coordinating Department 
Administration Department 
Orico Business Integrated Department 
Financial Services Division 
Forex & Securities Department
Financial Solutions Business Department
Financial Business Development Department
Construction & Realty Division 
Construction & Realty Department
Overseas Construction & Realty Department
Osaka Construction & Realty Department
Insurance Services Division 
Insurance Business Development Department
Marine Insurance Department
Logistics Services Division 
Logistics Department No.1
Logistics Department No.2
Net Income from Major Group Companies*1
Years ended March 31 (Billions of yen)
• ITOCHU Finance Corporation*2
2004
2005
¥4.1  
¥2.7
• CENTURY 21 REAL ESTATE OF JAPAN LTD. 0.2  
• i-LOGISTICS CORP.
• kabu.com Securities Co., Ltd.*2
0.2  
0.7  
0.2
0.4
0.9
*1 ITOCHU’s share of net income 
*2 The net income of ITOCHU Finance Corporation includes that of kabu.com Securities
Co., Ltd. 
In the fiscal year ended March 2004, the Finance, Realty,
Insurance  &  Logistics  Services  Company  booked  impair-
ment losses on fixed assets and proceeded to liquidate real
First Project Related to Tie-up with Orico:
Commencement of Inventory Loans for Auto Dealers
Orico Card “UPty”
estate inventories due to the early application of impairment
The Division Company began in April 2005 to handle inven-
accounting for fixed assets under Japan GAAP. This led to
tory loans for major automotive dealers affiliated with Orico.
a positive result, and along with strong condominium sales,
gross  trading  profit  rose  by  ¥3.2  billion  to  ¥39.3  billion  for
fiscal  year  2005,  excluding  the  losses  resulting  from  the
aforementioned  application  of  impairment  accounting  and
other factors during the previous period. With the additional
We have set a limit of ¥300 million for each car dealer and
we  expect  to  handle  ¥100  billion  in  total  per  year  within
three years through a country-wide expansion.
This plan enables a new type of capital funding for auto
dealers, using inventory as collateral and ultimately enabling
auto  dealers  to  make  vast  improvements  to  their  sales
contribution  from  the  stock  listing  of  kabu.com  Securities
force.  ITOCHU  Finance  Corporation  will  provide  credit  for
Co., Ltd., a ¥10.6 billion improvement over the previous fis-
cal year’s loss resulted in a net income of ¥5.4 billion for the
period, excluding the losses resulting from the application of
impairment  accounting  during  the  previous  fiscal  year,  and
thus our Division Company restored overall profitability.
the plan while Orico will manage disbursements and collec-
tions, monitor collateral, and oversee affiliated dealers.
Our alliance with Orico is not simply a means to provide
financial  services  to  Orico’s  customers  and  affiliated  retail
outlets. This tie-up will create value for the business by pro-
viding ITOCHU’s broad range of solutions including market-
ing functions, retail strategy, and consulting with respect to
cost-cutting measures.
Please refer to page 21 for an overview of the Company’s joint efforts
with Orient Corporation.
37
