I will take on all challenges to maintain a sense of intensity,
quicken our pace, and put our plan into action.
3. Anticipating social changes to create new business
We will also work on creating new business that is positioned to become the main source of
our future profits. In view of changes in social and market environments, such as diversified
lifestyles, technological innovation, declining birthrates, and an aging society, we have select-
ed three core fields in which we develop new business: consumer business, healthcare & liv-
ing services, and innovative technologies. To advance healthcare & living services, a new
focus segment introduced in the current mid-term management plan, we set up a Strategic
Business Development Department in April 2005. For the other two areas, we will enhance
our cross-company efforts through existing organizations under the leadership of the Chief
Operating Officer, Division Companies Operation, and our Function and Value (FV)
Committee.
Realizing Sustainable Growth
For a corporation to realize sustainable growth, not only is a steady and sure implementation
of business strategies necessary, but the support of stakeholders is also vital. Under the
newly established CSR & Compliance Division in April 2005, we will increase our efforts to
enhance Group compliance as well as CSR. By setting up a Disclosure Committee, we aim
to strengthen our internal control over the disclosure of financial and other information, and to
establish highly transparent corporate governance. 
I strongly believe that ITOCHU should be a group of “good corporate citizens with humanity
and high motivation to take on challenges.” Every employee should also have their own
ambitions, growing and developing to achieve them, and ultimately, the Company as a whole
can fulfill the expectations of all its stakeholders.
As president of ITOCHU, I will work with the Company’s employees to lead ITOCHU
toward future growth by foreseeing changes, always seeking the Frontier, and pursuing the
three principles of “Challenge, Create, and Commit.” I will take on all challenges to maintain a
sense of intensity, quicken our pace, and put our plan into action.
Thank you for your continued support and understanding of ITOCHU and our Group com-
panies.
July 2005
Eizo Kobayashi
President and Chief Executive Officer
10
