CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR)
ITOCHU’s Concept of Corporate Social Responsibility
ITOCHU believes that corporate social responsibility
(CSR) refers to tasks which must be performed in order to
fulfill the obligations of a good corporate citizen. A com-
pany must promote communication with its stakeholders,
and based on that, develop and achieve management
vision and measures that benefit society. 
To serve as a standard of judgment and conduct for its
employees in their fulfillment of the social responsibilities
that are expected of ITOCHU as a corporation, ITOCHU
has established “ITOCHU’s Credo and Way” and the
“ITOCHU Corporation Code of Conduct” as a concrete
formulation of “ITOCHU’s Credo and Way.” We are mak-
ing every effort to ensure that our employees understand
it thoroughly and observe it strictly.
To step up our proactive promotion of CSR, we estab-
lished the CSR & Compliance Division in April 2005.
ITOCHU’s Credo and Way
The ITOCHU Credo
The ITOCHU Way
1) Observance of Laws and
5) Disclosure 
10) Globalization 
ITOCHU Corporation Code of Conduct
Regulations 
ITOCHU  respects  the  laws  and  regula-
tions  of  the  countries  where  it  does
business  and  international  rules,  and
will pursue the highest standards of eth-
ical  behavior  in  its  dealings  with  cus-
tomers,  suppliers,  employees,  share-
holders, and other stakeholders. 
2) Supply of Quality Products and
Services 
ITOCHU  is  concerned  with  product
safety and the conservation of the envi-
ronment, energy, and natural resources,
and maintains a keen interest in the sup-
ply  of  safe,  quality  products.  ITOCHU
will carefully consider the social utility
of products and services it supplies. 
3) Management with a Long-Term
Vision 
ITOCHU  will  not  pursue  short-term
interests at the expense of its reputation
for  integrity,  and  will  conduct  its  busi-
ness with a long-term vision. 
4) Fair Dealing 
ITOCHU  recognizes  that  free  and  fair
competition  is  a  fundamental  principle
of the market economy and will engage
in free and fair competition. In addition,
ITOCHU  will  maintain  a  fair,  sound,
and  open  relationship  with  government
agencies and political bodies. 
ITOCHU  values  communication  with
its shareholders, other stakeholders, and
the  public  at  large,  and  will  fulfill  its
duty  to  make  full,  fair,  and  timely  dis-
closure of corporate information. 
ITOCHU  will  respect  the  cultures  and
customs  of  all  countries  in  which  it
operates, and conduct its overseas activ-
ities in a way that contributes to devel-
opment in all such locales. 
6) The Environment 
11) Compliance 
ITOCHU will remain vigilant in address-
ing  today’s  critical  environmental
issues. 
7) Good Corporate Citizen 
ITOCHU  will  seek  harmony  between
the pursuit of profit and contribution to
society, and will actively fulfill its role
as a good corporate citizen. 
8) Working Conditions 
ITOCHU  will  promote  good  working
conditions for its employees, respect the
dignity  and  personality  of  employees,
and  foster  an  open  culture  where  ideas
can  be  freely  expressed  and  creativity
can be fully developed. 
9) Policy Against Antisocial
Organizations 
ITOCHU  will  stand  firmly  against
forces or organizations that threaten the
order and security of the public. 
ITOCHU intends that all directors, offi-
cers, and employees of ITOCHU under-
stand  and  comply  with  this  Code  and
will  develop  a  system  to  enhance  the
understanding,  implementation,  and
effectiveness of this Code. 
12) Commitment by Executives 
The  executives  of  ITOCHU  will  take
the lead in implementing and enforcing
this  Code,  and  will  vigorously  address
violations  through  investigations.  Fair
and  appropriate  disclosure  shall  be
made of any such incidents, and appro-
priate  discrepancy  measures,  based  on
principles  of  accountability,  including
action directed toward themselves, shall
be taken by ITOCHU’s executives. 
50
