MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
All the financial information provided herein is based on the
consolidated financial statements included in this annual
report. These consolidated financial statements have been
prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP).
Figures in yen for the fiscal year ended March 31,
2005(“Fiscal 2005”) have been converted into U.S. dollars,
solely for the convenience of the reader, using an exchange
rate of ¥107.39 = U.S.$1 as of March 31, 2005 as announced
by The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, Ltd.
In this Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations, “the Company” refers
solely to ITOCHU Corporation, “ITOCHU” represents ITOCHU
Corporation and its subsidiaries including its associated com-
panies accounted for by the equity method, while “Group
companies” refers its subsidiaries and associated companies
accounted for by the equity method, unless otherwise indi-
cated.
Overview
In Fiscal 2005 Japan’s economy has continued a slow recov-
ery since last summer. The main reasons of the sluggish
growth were weak exports and tepid capital equipment
spending as well as continued cautious hiring by corporations,
which kept a damper on a recovery in personal consumption.
At the same time, the Nikkei Stock Index remained in a tight
range around ¥11,000 reflecting concerns over the health of
the economic recovery. On the foreign exchange rate , the yen
fell slightly against the dollar in the first half of the fiscal year on
the back of a rising U.S. interest rates but strengthened mod-
estly to around ¥105 in the second half amid fears over the
U.S. current account deficits. Economic conditions overseas
continued to recover. In the U.S., the economy enjoyed good
growth as robust corporate profits helped a rise in employ-
ment and capital expenditures. China continued strong growth
driven by active infrastructure investment and brisk exports.
Amid these conditions, prices for many primary commodities
continued to soar on surging demand from China.
Fiscal 2005 was the final year of ITOCHU’s mid-term manage-
ment plan ‘Super A&P-2004’ (stands for “Active and Powerful”) a
two-year plan from the fiscal year ended March 31, 2004 (“fiscal
2004”) through fiscal 2005, with the year positioned as the cap-
stone to the A&P strategy as a pace quickened to build a solid
foundation starting for High Jump expecting from the fiscal year
ending March 31, 2006 (“fiscal 2006”).
Specific achievements during fiscal 2005, in the consumer
and retail related sector, ITOCHU bolstered the textile related
business by expanding existing brands such as Paul Smith
and LANVIN, and promoted alliances with new brands such
as HANG TEN and SPALDING. In food related sector,
ITOCHU strengthened domestic food-distribution function by
making a follow-on investment in NIPPON ACCESS INC. and
by setting up Dolce Co., Ltd, a wholesale confectionary com-
pany, with Nishino Trading Co., Ltd. Overseas, together with
FamilyMart Co., Ltd.(“FamilyMart”), ITOCHU embarked on a
full-fledged development of convenience stores in China and
also established a new company to prepare for the opening of
stores in the U.S. In the information and multimedia related
sector, the shares of Excite Japan Co., Ltd., a core subsidiary
in the e-business field, were listed on the Jasdaq Securities
Exchange in November 2004. Excite Japan Co., Ltd. will try to
diversify its services and heighten its brand awareness to bol-
ster its role as a core consumer business. In natural resource
development related sector, ITOCHU made the decision to
invest in expansion of iron ore mines in west Australia to meet
a surge in demand led by China. Additionally, the crude oil
development project in Azerbaijan launched full-scale produc-
tion in the Azeru field.
In the financial services related sector, the shares of
kabu.com Securities Co., Ltd, an online security broker, listed
on the First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange in March
2005. In addition, ITOCHU determined to participate in a busi-
ness of and make an investment in Orient Corporation
(“Orico”) with the aim of expanding business operations in
financial and a wide array of downstream fields. In chemicals,
forest products and general merchandise related sector, a
new A&P segment, together with ITOCHU Chemical Frontier
Corporation, ITOCHU invested in Sanjiuhonsoubou Medical &
Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., a Japanese subsidiary of Sanjiu
Enterprise Group, the largest pharmaceutical company in
China. In automobile related sector, ITOCHU acquired the pre-
ferred shares of Isuzu Motors Ltd. (“Isuzu”), a very important
customer, with the aim of expanding the business including
production and sales in North America and China.
Furthermore, to develop leading-edge technologies into future
profit sources, the firm has to actively pursue strategic global
tie-ups. To this end, ITOCHU made a capital and business tie-
up with Sosei Co., Ltd, a biopharmaceutical company.
Additionally, ITOCHU established “AJI New Business
Expansion Fund” together with The Small and Medium Size
Enterprise Agency to further promote investments in and
alliances with small- and medium-sized companies.
65
