Risk Information
ITOCHU is exposed to various risks such as market risks, credit
risks and investment risks, due to the nature of a wide range of
their business. These risks include unpredictable uncertainty
and may have significant effects on their future business and
financial performance. ITOCHU has enhanced their risk man-
agement policy and risk management methodology to monitor
and manage these risks, but it is impossible to completely avoid
all these risks.
With respect to descriptions about future event, ITOCHU
appropriately determines its assumption and estimates based
on information at the end of fiscal year 2005.
(1) Corporate Result Risks Due to Macroeconomic Factors
ITOCHU involves a wide variety of business ranging from supply
of raw materials to manufacturing and sale in each of their busi-
ness areas. ITOCHU conducts diverse types of commercial
transactions such as purchase and sale of products in the
domestic market as well as import/export trade between over-
seas affiliates. Changes in the domestic economy and fluctua-
tions in world economic environments can seriously affect
ITOCHU’s results of operations.
To give an overview of ITOCHU’s main areas of business, the
domestic economy has a relatively strong influence on a con-
sumer and retail-related segment such as textiles and food.
Trade in machinery such as plants, autos and industrial machin-
ery, trade in mineral resources, energy and chemical products
and investments in development are all largely dependent on
economic trends in the U.S. and Asia countries, which take the
lead in the world economy. Furthermore, with the steady expan-
sion of demand in China, one of ITOCHU’s priority markets,
ITOCHU has conducted business and trade in China at a rapid
pace for many areas of business. Consequently, Chinese eco-
nomic trends have a possibility to seriously affect the financial
position and results of operations of ITOCHU.
(2) Market Risks
ITOCHU is exposed to market risks such as foreign exchange
rate risks, interest rate risks, commodity price risks and stock
price risks. ITOCHU attempts to minimize risks related to mar-
ket fluctuations such as changes in foreign exchange rates and
interest rates by establishing risk management policy such as
setting and controlling a limit and by utilizing a variety of deriva-
tive instruments for hedging purposes. Reference should be
made to the accounting policy for derivative instruments in note
2, “Basis of Financial Statements and Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies” and note 18, “Financial Instruments” to the
consolidated financial statements. 
Foreign Exchange Rate Risk
The Company and certain Group companies are exposed to
foreign exchange rate risk related to transactions denomi-
nated in foreign currencies due to its significant involvement in
import/export trading. ITOCHU is working to manage
ITOCHU’s foreign currency balance by contract amount, debt
and liabilities, the amount of ITOCHU’s own/other’s risk, and
short/long-term and set limits on foreign exchange rate risks
(limit of balance and that of loss). ITOCHU is also working to
minimize foreign exchange rate risks using derivative transac-
tions such as forward exchange contracts and currency
swap contracts. However, ITOCHU cannot guarantee a com-
plete avoidance of such foreign exchange rate risks by utiliz-
ing derivative instruments.
Since the Company is engaged in businesses involving for-
eign currencies with a number of overseas trading sub-
sidiaries and other overseas group companies, the figures
denominated in Japanese yen on its consolidated balance
sheets are also exposed to so-called foreign currency transla-
tion risk. This translation risk has no impact on the perfor-
mance of the business conducted in foreign currencies. In
addition, a long period is generally needed to recover the
amount of investments. Accordingly, the Company does not
hedge the translation risk, as the term of effectiveness pro-
vided by hedging is limited.
Interest Rate Risk
ITOCHU is exposed to interest rate risk in both fund raising
and in its lending, investing, and operating activities. Interest
rate risk refers to the risk of earnings fluctuation caused by
changes to interest rates, when mismatches in interest rate
sensitivity to assets/liabilities and durations occur. Interest
rate risk, on the whole, consists of balance, magnitude of
interest rate change, and duration. ITOCHU is working to
quantify interest rate risks to control such risks in a concrete
and objective manner. To be specific, using the management
method Earnings at Risk (EaR), ITOCHU has set a certain limit
(Loss Cut Limit) as the highest acceptable interest payment
and has executed hedging transactions primarily in the form
of interest rate swaps to minimize interest risk. However,
ITOCHU still cannot guarantee a complete avoidance of inter-
est rate risk, even having adopted these management meth-
ods.
Commodity Price Risk
As a trading company handling a diverse array of commodi-
ties, ITOCHU is exposed to commodity price risks due to
such factors as market fluctuations. ITOCHU has established
a fundamental risk management policy on an individual
Division Company basis, assessing purchase contracts,
inventories, and sales contracts, etc. and setting and manag-
ing a balance limit and loss cut limit for each individual prod-
uct and conducting periodic reviews. In addition, ITOCHU
works to minimize commodity price risk by utilizing derivatives
such as futures or forward contracts as means of hedging.
Despite these measures, ITOCHU cannot guarantee a com-
plete avoidance of commodity price risks.
ITOCHU as well as certain Group Companies also partici-
pate in resource development businesses such as the energy
sector and other manufacturing businesses. Production in
these businesses is also exposed to the same commodity
price risks noted above, and it is possible for the value of the
businesses to deteriorate. If this were to occur, it could seri-
ously affect the financial position and results of operations of
ITOCHU.
Stock Price Risk
ITOCHU holds available-for-sale securities which are vulnera-
ble to price fluctuation. ITOCHU strives to maintain appropri-
ate levels of investment and to minimize stock price risk by
applying exit rules for inefficient investments that ITOCHU has
little reason to hold. The fair value of the available-for-sale
securities held by the Company and its subsidiaries was
¥190.5 billion ($1,774 million) as of March 31, 2005.
However, assuming that the price of these investments fluc-
tuated and the fair value of these available-for-sale mar-
ketable securities decreased, it could seriously affect the
financial position and results of operations of ITOCHU.
85
