Providing Comfortable Working Conditions for Our Employees
ITOCHU Corporation is committed to provide comfortable
nel strategies that focus on securing and developing person-
working environments and to ensure the safety and well-
nel for each Division Company. We have opened a manage-
being of its employees. At the same time, we seek to create
rial school and are making efforts to train overseas regional
a corporate atmosphere conducive to freedom and creativity
staff and young people who will become the leaders of
while respecting the personality and distinctive traits of indi-
tomorrow. Furthermore, we introduced a personnel assess-
viduals as far as possible.
Maximizing Diversity
ment system to help place our employees in the right posi-
tions. Under this system, superiors interview their subordi-
nates to gain an understanding of their individual capabilities
To sharpen our response to economic globalization and
and specialist expertise. Based on that, a training plan is
promote consolidated management, it has become vital to
prepared for each employee. Beginning in fiscal year 2005,
assign employees in accordance with the specific situations
those in managerial positions are given feedback from their
of our respective business fields. We seek to maximize the
subordinates as a way for them to improve their manage-
diversity of employees, regardless of gender, nationality, or
ment skills by reflecting on their own actions. 
age, and to this end we formulated our Promotion Plan on
Human Resource Diversification in December 2003. Under
Respecting Employees’ Personalities and Individual
this plan, we work hard to implement concrete programs
Traits
such as a mentor system to recruit and retain female and
To maintain the mental health of employees and address
overseas local staff. 
their job-related concerns, we implement measures that
Meanwhile, we strive to provide comfortable working envi-
place focus on prevention rather than treatment, including
ronments for the physically and mentally disabled. In 1987,
periodic ongoing seminars. We have also set up a system to
we established ITOCHU Uneedus Co., Ltd., as a special
provide in-house counseling from psychiatrists and clinical
company under the Law for Employment Promotion, etc. of
psychologists. 
the Disabled. As of April 1, 2005, disabled people account-
To help those balancing work and family obligations, we
ed for 2.3% of our total workforce, compared with 1.8% as
have a system enabling employees to take time off or work
mandated by law. We will continue to maintain this high ratio
fewer hours while their children are wait-listed for day-care
in the future.
facilities or when unprecedented nursing care needs arise. 
In our efforts to employ diverse personnel, ITOCHU was
selected as a Business of Excellence for the Employment of
Maintaining Dialogue with Employees
Disabled Persons by the Minister of Health, Labor, and
We hold a company-wide employees meeting twice a year
Welfare in fiscal year 2002, and received the Corporation
to communicate messages from top management directly
Award for the Promotion of Gender Equality from the
to employees, and to provide an opportunity for employees
Director-General of the Tokyo Labor Bureau for fiscal year
to ask face-to-face questions with the management.
2006.
Periodic conferences are held among the ITOCHU LABOR
UNION, management team, and Division Companies, facili-
Establishing and Implementing Personnel Strategies
tating free employee-employer discussions on management
To develop management personnel who will take charge of
issues and problem areas found in each business segment.
our business strategies, we have built consolidated person-
54
