(13) Risks Associated with Information Systems and
Information Security
In ITOCHU, a code of conduct concerning the handling of
information is set for all directors and employees and high pri-
ority is placed on maintaining a high information security level
in the Company. ITOCHU has established an information sys-
tem to facilitate the sharing of information internally within
ITOCHU and externally with clients, and to improve the effi-
ciency of operations. In order to maintain a secure operation
of ITOCHU’s information systems, ITOCHU has established a
firewall to prevent outside intrusions to the network, estab-
lished security guidelines, and have developed crisis control
measures. Despite these measures, ITOCHU cannot com-
pletely avoid the possibility of unauthorized access from the
outside, the leakage of sensitive company information due to
computer viruses, or operational failure of the system due to
damage to information system equipment arising from natural
disasters or accidents or from trouble with telecommunica-
tions circuitry. If such events occur, this could cause a deterio-
ration of operational efficiency and depending on the serious-
ness of the damage, have a serious adverse effect on the
financial position and results of operations of ITOCHU.
Moreover, ITOCHU gathers and maintains personal informa-
tion in the course of ITOCHU’s operations. Such information
relates to the Company, retailing, credit and financing, and
services offered. In conjunction with the enactment of laws
pertaining to the safeguarding of personal information on April
1, 2005 (Personal Information Protection Act), ITOCHU is
making even greater efforts to safeguard personal information.
However, ITOCHU cannot completely avoid the possibility of
personal information being transmitted outside the Company
due to improper acts by employees or intrusion from the out-
side, and the consequent fraudulent use or diversion of such
information. If such events occur, ITOCHU would face a grave
loss of public trust, and could face serious adverse effects to
the financial position and results of operations. 
Critical Accounting Policies
The Company’s consolidated financial statements are pre-
pared in conformity with U.S. GAAP. In preparation of the con-
solidated financial statements, the management of the
Company is required to make a number of estimates, judg-
ments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
assets, liabilities, contingent assets and liabilities as of each
balance sheet date, and revenues and expenses in each
reporting period. Management periodically verifies and makes
a review of its estimates, judgments and assumptions based
on the available information that is considered to be reason-
able by judging from historical experiences and circum-
stances. These estimates, judgments and assumptions,
however, which are often accompanied by uncertainties, may
differ from actual results. These differences may have an effect
on the Company’s consolidated financial statements and per-
formances of every operating segment. The following account-
ing policies related to estimates, judgments and assumptions
that management believes may materially affect consolidated
financial statements.
Evaluation of Investments
Investment balance and profit from investments are important
factors in the Company’s consolidated financial statements and
therefore, accounting judgment on evaluation of investments
has a substantial impact on the Company’s consolidated finan-
cial statements. ITOCHU evaluates marketable securities based
on their fair values. The difference between carrying amount and
fair value is reported in the consolidated statements of opera-
tions for trading securities, while differences net of tax are
reported in stockholders’ equity as unrealized holding gains on
securities, for available-for-sale securities. When ITOCHU
judges that the price decrease of marketable securities is other
than temporary, considering severity and duration of decline in
the fair value against carrying amount, impairment losses are
recognized for the devaluation of this value. 
For the impairment of non-marketable securities, judg-
ment of an other-than-temporary decline is conducted after
a comprehensive consideration of the magnitude of the
decrease in terms of net asset value, the financial conditions
of the invested companies, and the outlook for their future
performance. 
For the impairment of marketable investments in equity-
method investments, in accordance with U.S. Accounting
Principles Board Opinions No.18, as is the case for impairment
of long-lived assets, ITOCHU judges whether or not a price
decrease is other than temporary not only by measuring the
magnitude of the decrease in market value but also compre-
hensively considering the possibility of collection based on the
estimated future cash flows generated from the investment. 
The management of the Company believes these invest-
ment evaluations are rational. However, difference in estimates
such as estimated future cash flows due to unforeseen
changes in business conditions may impair the value of invest-
ments and have a material impact on the Company’s consoli-
dated financial statements.
Provision for Doubtful Receivables
Trade receivables including notes and accounts, in addition to
loans, represent a large amount in the Company’s consoli-
dated balance sheets, and provision for doubtful receivables is
an important factor in the Company’s consolidated statements
of income. Therefore, accounting judgment on evaluation of
receivables has a substantial impact on the Company’s con-
solidated financial statements.
In the Company, the credit department of each Division
Company, which is independent of business departments of
each Division Company, manages and evaluates credit risk
from both quantitative and qualitative perspectives, monitoring
regularly the credit limit and the status quo of trade receiv-
ables, and reviewing regularly the status quo of debt collection
and delinquency to discuss and record the required provision
for doubtful receivables. The Company estimates the recover-
able amount and records the required provision for doubtful
receivables, after comprehensively considering the status of
collection, past insolvency record, financial conditions of
debtors and value of collateral.
The management of the Company believes that these esti-
mations of provisions for doubtful receivables are rational.
However, deterioration of the debtors’ financial conditions and
decreases in estimated collateral value due to unpredictable
changes in business conditions may reduce the recoverable
amounts from the latest estimation, and an increase in provi-
sion for doubtful receivables may have a material impact on
the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
88
