Kouhei Watanabe
President, Food Company
Food Company
The Food Company seamlessly brings together all lev-
In  the  retail  sector,  we  are  developing  FamilyMart
els of the foodstuff field, from the development of food
convenience stores. In addition to aggressively open-
materials in Japan and overseas to manufacturing and
ing  stores  in  Japan  and  overseas,  the  Company  is
processing,  distribution,  and  the  retail  business.  We
operating FamilyMart as a major component of its SIS
are  developing  our  business  by  applying  a  Strategic
strategy at the forefront of its retail operations. These
Integrated System (SIS), which features the building of
stores function as strategic bases, providing feedback
a  supply  and  demand  system  based  on  customer
on consumers’ needs to mid and upstream operations
needs.
and  offering  information  to  consumers  through  new
In the domestic distribution sector, the Company has
products and services. We expect that these functions
built  the  top-level  food  distribution  network  in  the
will continue to be enhanced. 
industry.  The  three  wholesalers  ITOCHU  SHOKUHIN
In  Asian  markets  centering  on  China  and  Thailand,
Co.  Ltd.,  Nishino  Trading  CO.,  LTD.,  and  NIPPON
which are experiencing a rapid expansion, we are also
ACCESS, INC. form the core of this nationwide, multi-
pursuing strategic alliances with leading local partners
temperature distribution network. 
such as the Ting Hsin International Group (China). Our
strategy is to rapidly and actively pursue the establish-
ment of a supply base for Japan and to break into new
consumer markets by transplanting to overseas mar-
kets  the  technology,  brand  power,  and  SIS  strategy
Net Income from Major Group Companies*
know-how we have cultivated in Japan.
Years ended March 31 (Billions of yen)
• Nishino Trading Co., Ltd.
• Japan Foods Co., Ltd.
• FamilyMart Co., Ltd.
• CGB ENTERPRISES, INC.
*ITOCHU’s share of net income 
2004
2005
¥0.9  
¥0.7
0.1  
4.2  
0.1  
0.2
4.0
0.6
Business Performance and Priority Policies in Fiscal
Year 2005
Regarding  the  macro  environment  for  the  industry,  reor-
ganization  of  the  domestic  food  industry  on  all  levels  is
progressing. In overseas markets, we are seeing sustained
high growth for the food sector in China, which experienc-
ing  close  to  double-digit  growth.  Business  opportunities
are also expanding in China with the easing of restrictions
on  foreign  investment  in  the  wholesale  industry  in
December 2004.
34
