1. Improve the effectiveness and efficiency of manage-
management and the Board of Directors on behalf of the
ment
stockholders. Its principal roles are as follows:
2. Practice thorough compliance with laws and regula-
1. Review performance of independent external auditors
tions
and auditing details
3. Ensure the reliability of financial reports
2. Supervise consolidated group companies’ internal con-
In particular, in relation to practicing thorough compliance
trols, risk management, and governance
with laws and regulations, one particular area of emphasis
3. Monitor executive decisions of the President and other
has been reinforcing our compliance system (please see
officers
page 51 for details). Further, a reevaluation and system-
To carry out these roles, the auditors regularly attend
ization of internal control to ensure the reliability of finan-
Board meetings to express their views, although they do
cial statements has begun from fiscal year 2006 under
not have the right to vote. In addition, standing corporate
the supervision of the Disclosure Committee established
auditors supervise management by attending important
that year. 
internal meetings and regularly meeting with top man-
agers. They also work to ensure close ties between the
Role of the Board of Corporate Auditors
independent external auditors and the internal audit divi-
ITOCHU’s Board of Corporate Auditors is comprised of
sion, and cooperate with auditors at consolidated group
five auditors (two of whom are outside corporate audi-
companies by regularly meeting with group companies,
tors), who are appointed by the General Stockholders
including the Group Audit Committee (GAC), which is
Meeting and are independent of the Board of Directors.
made up of auditors from the principal group companies.
The Board of Corporate Auditors contributes to
Substantial attention is paid in selecting the outside cor-
ITOCHU’s healthy growth by monitoring the Company’s
porate auditors to ensure their independence.
Principal Internal Committees
Name 
Disclosure Committee
Roles
• Examines policies and measures concerning internal control associated with information dis-
closure (including internal control related to financial statements) (established in April 2005)
(Chairman: Executive Vice President Fujita; meets as required)
Strategic Investment Committee • Examines strategic investment as planned in the mid-term management plan
(Chairman: Executive Vice President Kato; meets once a month)
ALM* Committee
• Administers comprehensive balance sheets and risk management, and makes proposals
FV* Committee
CIO* Committee
Group Profits Improvement 
Committee
CSR Compliance Committee
regarding monitoring systems and improvement measures for management
(Chairman: Executive Vice President Fujita; meets twice a month)
• In order to facilitate a reinforcement of each Division Company’s function and value creation,
pursues synergies by leveraging the Company’s comprehensive functions and strengths, as
well as supports and promotes project involvement by the whole Company
(Chairman: Executive Vice President Kato; meets once every two months)
• Examines and promotes policies for the Group’s information strategy
(Chairman: Senior Managing Director Tamba; meets once a month)
• Analyzes subsidiaries’ cost and earnings structures to build a consolidated cost structure 
appropriate to the level of profits; studies ways to improve profit structure and conducts fol-
low-ups to track improvements
(Chairman: Senior Managing Director Tamba; meets once a month) 
• Examines and promotes policies and measures concerning CSR
• Sets programs for a thorough understanding of the Company’s management principles and
corporate code of conduct, and comprehensively manages their enforcement
(Chairman: Executive Vice President Fujita, meets once every two months)
*ALM = Asset Liability Management   *FV = Function and Value   *CIO = Chief Information Officer
46
