included in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)”
in stockholders’ equity on a net-of-tax basis. The cost of cer-
tain investments sold is determined using the moving-average
cost method.
Non-marketable securities included in “Other investments”
are reported at cost or the fair value if it is lower.
The Company and its subsidiaries periodically review its
investments for impairment to determine whether the fair value
of held-to-maturity and available-for-sale securities has
declined below cost and if such decline is believed to be other
than temporary. If the decline in fair value is judged to be other
than temporary, the cost basis of those securities is written
down to fair value as a new cost basis. Whether the decline in
value is other than temporary is determined by considering the
severity (the extent to which fair value is below cost) and the
duration (the period of time that a security has been impaired).
f. Investments in Associated Companies
The Company and its subsidiaries initially record investments
in associated companies (generally, those in which the
Company and its subsidiaries own 20% to 50% of the out-
standing voting stocks) at cost and adjust the carrying amount
of the investment to recognize their share of the undistributed
earnings or losses of the associated companies after the date
of acquisition. Under the equity method, the Company and its
subsidiaries make adjustments to eliminate significant unreal-
ized intercompany profits and to reduce the carrying amount
of the investment by dividends received. The excess of the
acquisition costs over the underlying equity in the net assets
acquired is allocated first to identifiable assets based on rela-
tive fair value at the date of acquisition. The unassigned resid-
ual amount is not amortized but tested for impairment at least
annually.
g. Impaired Loans and Allowance for Doubtful Receivables
In accordance with SFAS 114, “Accounting by Creditors for
Impairment of a Loan” and SFAS 118, “Accounting by
Creditors for Impairment of a Loan — Income Recognition and
Disclosures, an amendment of FASB Statement No. 114,” the
Company and its subsidiaries measure impairment for certain
loans based on the present value of expected future cash
flows discounted at the loan’s effective interest rate, the loan’s
observable market price or the fair value of the underlying col-
lateral if the loan is collateral dependent, and recognize an
impairment by creating and adjusting a valuation allowance if
the fair value of the loan is less than the recorded amount.
The Company and its subsidiaries recognize, principally
using a cash basis method, interest income on the recorded
investment in an impaired loan.
h. Long-lived Assets
In accordance with SFAS 144, “Accounting for the Impairment
or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,” the Company and its sub-
sidiaries perform an impairment test for a long-lived asset
(asset group) to be held and used, using undiscounted
expected future cash flows, whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that some portion of the carrying
amount of the asset (asset group) may not be recoverable. If
the sum of the undiscounted expected future cash flows is
less than the carrying amount of the asset (asset group), an
impairment loss is recognized as determined by the amount
by which the carrying amount of a long-lived asset (asset
group) exceeds its fair value. A long-lived asset (asset group)
to be disposed of by sale is reported at the lower of its carry-
ing amount or fair value less cost to sell.
i. Asset Retirement Obligations
In accordance with SFAS 143, “Accounting for Asset
Retirement Obligations” the Company and its subsidiaries rec-
ognize the fair value of a long-live asset retirement obligation
as a liability in the period in which it is incurred if a reasonable
estimate of fair value can be made and capitalize the same
amount in the cost of the related asset. Subsequently, the
Company and its subsidiaries accrete the liability to its present
value each period, and depreciate the capitalized cost over
the useful life of the related asset.
j. Depreciation
Depreciation of property and equipment (including property
leased to others) is computed principally by the unit-of-pro-
duction method for mineral rights and by the straight-line
method for property and equipment other than land, construc-
tion in progress and mineral rights, using rates based upon
the estimated useful lives of the related property and equip-
ment. 
k. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
In accordance with SFAS141, “Business Combinations,” the
Company and its subsidiaries account for all business combi-
nations using the purchase method, and also have written
guidance relating to the recognition of acquired intangible
assets apart from goodwill. In accordance with SFAS 142,
“Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” the Company and its
subsidiaries do not amortize goodwill regularly but perform an
impairment test at the reporting unit level at least on an annual
basis and between annual tests if an event occurs or circum-
stances change that would more indicate that it is likely than
not that the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying
amount. An intangible asset with a definite useful life is amor-
tized over its estimated useful life and is reviewed for impair-
ment in accordance with SFAS 144. An intangible asset
determined to have an indefinite useful life is not amortized but
is instead periodically tested for impairment in the same man-
ner as goodwill.
In accordance with SFAS 141, the Company and its sub-
sidiaries recognized as an extraordinary gain the remaining
excess of fair value of acquired net assets over the cost relat-
ing to an investment in associated companies for the year
ended March 31, 2004. The extraordinary gain recognized
was ¥1,828 million, net of tax of ¥1,271 million, and has been
presented in the consolidated statements of operations as
“Extraordinary items — gain on negative goodwill, less applic-
able income taxes of ¥1,271 million.”
l. Revenue recognition
The Company and its subsidiaries act as either principal or
agent in their trading transactions for earning revenues. The
Company and its subsidiaries recognize revenues from sales
of products, the development of natural resources, and the
development and sale of real estate. In addition to these rev-
enue transactions, the Company and its subsidiaries recog-
nize revenues from supporting services such as supporting
96
