Number of Employees
As of March 31, 2005
Consolidated* 
Non-consolidated 
5,442
571
*The number of consolidated employees is based on 
actual working employees excluding temporary staff.
Number of Subsidiaries and Associates
Domestic
Overseas
Products & Services
24
49
• Oil, gas and petrochemical plants •
Ships • Vehicles • Rolling stock •
Power generating equipment •
Construction machinery • Textile
machinery • Industrial machinery •
Medical devices • Electronic device
and equipment
Organization (As of April 1, 2005)
Machinery Company
Planning & Coordinating Department 
Administration Department 
Plant & Project Division  
Marine Department
Oil, Gas & Petrochemical Project Department
Transport & Infrastructure Projects Department
Utility Solution Business Department
Automobile Division 
Automobile Department No.1
Automobile Department No.2
Automobile Department No.3
Department of Automobile Business Strategy and Development
Isuzu Business Promotion Department
Industrial Machinery & Solution Division 
New Business Promotion Department 
Industrial Machinery & Project Department
Fine Process Machinery Department
These activities fueled a dramatic rise in profits for fiscal
Financial Highlights
year 2005. Gross trading profit rose ¥6.9 billion to ¥58.0
billion  and  net  income  increased  ¥6.6  billion  (approxi-
mately  170%)  to  ¥10.5  billion,  spurred  on  by  increased
profits  from  equity  in  the  earnings  of  associated  compa-
nies. ROA also improved dramatically, rising 1.6 percent-
age points to 2.4%.
12 (Billions of yen)
3 (%)
(Billions of yen) 600
400
200
’03 
(Years ended March 31)
’04 
’05 
(As of March 31)
Net income (Above Left)
Total assets (Right) 
ROA (Below Left)
Expanding  Our  Automotive  Business  through  an
Moreover,  we  operate  a  number  of  businesses  in  North
Additional Investment in Isuzu Motors Ltd.
America that provide comprehensive distribution services rang-
ing from parts procurement to vehicle transportation.
In November 2004, we expanded the scope of our automotive
Our aim in purchasing the preferred shares is to strengthen
business with the purchase of ¥19.1 billion of outstanding pre-
further  our  relationship  with  Isuzu  Motors.  To  this  end,  we
ferred shares of Isuzu Motors.
established  a  new  department  called  the  Isuzu  Business
Although  high  growth  is  not  expected  for  the  domestic
Promotion  Department  in  April  2005.  Our  objective  going  for-
Japanese  auto  market,  we  anticipate  continued  high  growth
ward  is  to  develop  and  expand  aggressively  new  business  in
overseas, primarily in Asia and the BRICs. Isuzu Motors has des-
regions such as North America and China.
ignated  overseas  business  as  a  pillar  of
its  growth  strategy  and  plans  to  double
overseas auto sales to 300,000 units by
March 2008 through a strengthening of
its local production and sales networks.
We have previously collaborated with
Isuzu  Motors  in  developing  automotive
operations  overseas,  establishing  joint
manufacturing  and  sales  ventures  in
Vietnam  and  Indonesia  as  well  as  a
distributorship  for  North  America.
Latest Isuzu commercial vehicle lineup
27
