Major Group Companies Reporting Losses
Years ended March 31
Domestic subsidiaries (*2)
Shares
(*1) Net income (loss)
Billions of Yen
2005
2004
Reasons for changes
Roy-ne Co., Ltd ...........................................
74.92%
¥(0.5)
¥ 0.0 
Due to impairment loss on fixed assets
Overseas subsidiaries
ITOCHU Europe PLC. ..................................
ITOCHU Airlease B.V.  ..................................
100.00%
100.00%
¥(1.5)
(0.8)
¥ 0.3 
(0.5)
Low performances in affiliated companies
Impairment losses for aircraft assets
Domestic  equity-method associated companies
Japan Brazil Paper and 
Pulp Resources Development Co., Ltd  .....
25.94%
¥(0.6)
¥ 1.7 
Due to recognition of goodwill impairment loss on CENIBRA
Overseas equity-method associated companies
P.T. PURADELTA LESTARI
P.T. PEMBANGUNAN DELTAMAS 
..............
25.00%
¥(1.9)
¥(1.7)
Effect of exchange loss in Indonesian rupiah
(*1) The Company’s share of net income(loss) are the figures after adjusting to U.S. GAAP, which can be different from the figures each company announces.
(*2) There is Family Corporation Inc., that made a loss on goodwill impairment relating to shares of FamilyMart Co., Ltd., besides above mentioned. 
Management Policy for the Future
ITOCHU has started a new mid-term management plan,
“Frontier-2006, a shift to aggressive business and solid man-
agement,” (a two-year plan for fiscal 2006 and 2007).
The “Frontier-2006” plan defines these two years as a
period to make ITOCHU a highly profitable corporate group
constantly achieving more than 100 billion yen in net income.
By foreseeing changes, always seeking a “frontier”, and pur-
suing three principles of “challenge, create and commit,”
ITOCHU will expand earnings and strengthen its management
system with the following five measures.
1) ITOCHU will challenge the expansion of earnings. Under the
“Frontier-2006” plan, ITOCHU defines core segments/areas
within each Division Company to further accelerate the real-
location and upgrades of assets. In addition, by maximizing
synergy among ITOCHU groups, ITOCHU plans to further
increase earnings in consumer related sector, a strong busi-
ness domain of ITOCHU and Natural resource development
sector where demand increase is expected. In overseas
markets, ITOCHU will not only expand business in North
America and Asia including China, where ITOCHU can take
a lot of business opportunities, but will also strengthen busi-
ness in emerging countries such as Russia, India and Brazil,
regarding them as potential markets for future expansion of
business.
tions, etc), consumer business, and innovative technolo-
gies, which are new potential markets generated by
changes in population structure accompanied by declining
birthrate and rapidly aging of society, diversifying lifestyle,
and innovation in technologies.
3) To maintain a “solid management” that support “aggressive
business,” ITOCHU will keep controlling the amount of inter-
est-bearing debt and enhance risk management on a con-
solidated basis by continuing the basic policy of further
improvement of financial position and reinforcement of risk
management.
4) ITOCHU aims at establishing a management system that
supports “aggressive business.” In addition to setting up a
highly transparent corporate governance, ITOCHU will
actively pursue CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility)
through communications with society including sharehold-
ers. In addition, ITOCHU will reinforce internal control in
order to strengthen risk management and secure credibility
of financial reporting.
5) ITOCHU as a whole group will implement a more flexible
human resource strategy to obtain, educate and rotate
employees in order to realize ITOCHU’s growth strategy.
2) ITOCHU will create new business. ITOCHU will develop
core fields for future profits by creating new value-added
products and services in healthcare and living services
(healthcare, medical treatment, hobbies and cultural educa-
By undertaking the above-mentioned efforts, ITOCHU will not
only increase the value of ITOCHU group to reward its share-
holders, but will also contribute to regional and global societies
including active approaches to global environmental issues.
78
