Hiroshi Kitamura
President, Chemicals, Forest Products & General Merchandise Company
Chemicals, Forest Products & General Merchandise Company
The Chemicals, Forest Products &
Financial Highlights
General  Merchandise  Company  is
comprised  of  two  divisions  and
one  department,  which  is  under
the  direct  control  of  this  Division
Company.
1. Forest  Products  &  General
Merchandise  Division,  for  which
the  following  businesses  form
the  core  components  of  profits:
global  trade  in  natural  rubber
and  tires;  building  materials
focused  on  Japan  and  the  U.S.
30 (Billions of yen)
6 (%)
20
4
10
2
Our  Forest  Products  &  General
Merchandise Division occupies the
(Billions of yen) 600
lead  position  among  general  trad-
ing  companies  in  terms  of  gross
400
trading  profit,  and  net  income  for
200
this  fiscal  year  as  well.  Following
fiscal  year  2004,  the  Chemicals
Division  again  achieved  record-
high  profits  in  fiscal  year  2005,
assuming the lead in terms of ROA
among general trading companies
after  reorganizing  our  portfolio  to
increase highly efficient assets.
’03 
(Years ended March 31)
’04 
’05 
(As of March 31)
Net income (Above Left)
Total assets (Right) 
ROA (Below Left)
markets; forestation in Oceania and South America;
pulp  manufacturing  in  Brazil  and  the  global  pulp
Business Performance and Priority Policies in Fiscal
trade;  and  the  manufacture  and  sale  of  ceramic
Year 2005
materials and products.
The  business  environment  for  this  period  was  favorable
2. Chemicals  Division,  which  is  engaged  in  trade  in
overall. Despite cost increases in the chip and pulp manu-
organic  and  inorganic  chemicals  and  commodity
facturing business overseas due to a rise of the local cur-
resins; the sale of functional chemicals; pharmaceu-
rency and the negative impact due to demand adjustment
ticals,  life  science-related  products,  and  synthetic
in the electronic materials sector, demand was strong for
resin products; and the processing business of syn-
building  and  other  materials  in  both  the  U.S.  and  Japan.
thetic resin both domestically and overseas.
Continued  high  prices  for  the  chemical  products  market
3. Life & Living Department, which handles retail sales
also contributed to favorable results.
and retail support businesses for lifestyle goods. 
We remain committed to the midstream and retail fields
Since  we  cover  a  wide  range  of  businesses,  we
and are strengthening upstream fields centering on large-
clearly distinguish the roles of each, including those of
scale projects. In the midstream and retail fields, our sub-
the  group  companies.  We  manifest  our  strengths
sidiary  I.C.S.  Co.,  Ltd.  acquired  Autotech  Corp.,  an  auto
through  integrated  global  operations  of  products  and
accessories and supplies retailer.  We also made a capital
services from upstream to downstream.
investment  in  the  Japanese  local  subsidiary  of  China’s
largest pharmaceutical company, Sanjiu Enterprise Group,
putting  in  place  a  structure  for  the  development  of  the
pharmaceuticals business in Chinese herbal medicine and
32
