U.S. In the brand business, we also established a joint
venture with a Chinese local partner and launched the
“renoma PARIS” brand in China.
• In the consumer and retail-related segment, we set up a
joint venture with Asahi Breweries, Ltd. in the tea bever-
age manufacturing business, where the Ting Hsin
International Group, China’s largest food business group,
has the top share of the tea beverage market.
• In the retail segment, we opened general merchandise
stores in Beijing and Chengdu through a joint venture
with Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. Our FamilyMart franchise,
which we have already developed in Taiwan, South
Korea, and Thailand, has opened stores in China, rapidly
bringing us closer to the goal of 20,000 stores worldwide.
• To enhance our distribution function in China, we have
made an equity investment in Tingtong (Cayman Islands)
Holding Corp., a trucking company under the umbrella of
the Ting Hsin International Group.
• In the natural resource development segment, we
focused on expanding coal and iron ore trading with
China, where there has been a dramatic increase in
demand. We also made an investment in Pearl Energy
Ltd. in Singapore.
• In response to the Chinese government’s Northeastern
Provinces’ Revival Campaign, we opened branch offices
in Shenyang, Harbin, and Changchun to establish bases
for business operations in the region.
3. Overseas Strategies for the Future
Our goal under the new mid-term management plan,
“Frontier-2006,” is to reach a consolidated net income of
over ¥100 billion steadily and sustainably. We expect to
earn approximately half of this—over ¥50 billion—through
our overseas operations. 
We will pursue strategies to maintain steady growth in the
natural resources sector. Many business opportunities exist
in North America, and higher growth can be anticipated in
China and other parts of Asia. Targeting these regions as
important markets for ITOCHU, we will exercise our
strength in the consumer business and infrastructure seg-
ments to expand profitability. To make this possible, in
North America we will carry out thorough portfolio manage-
ment and strengthen profitability by reallocating assets. At
the same time, we will continue to make large-scale invest-
ments in China and other Asian countries and enhance our
management systems there, and expand profitability by
increasing local and regional transactions.
Further, we plan to make strategic advancements in the
newly emerging Russian, Indian, and Brazilian markets. We
will strive to expand profitability in the future in the areas of
natural resource development; the export of consumer
goods including automobiles, tires, and apparel; and ODA-
related projects such as building large plants and infra-
structure. We also aim to expand our local and third-coun-
try transactions by enhancing alliances with leading
Chinese corporations. Additionally, we plan to foster local
specialists.
To further advance our overseas operations, ITOCHU
consolidated all of its headquarters organizations related to
overseas businesses in April 2005, and established the
Overseas Operations, Administration & Development
Department. Its purpose is to enhance information sharing
between Division Companies and overseas offices, as well
as among overseas offices. At the same time, the Division
Companies’ strategies for core segments and regional
market strategies will be integrated to create a system that
strives for a further expansion of profitability. While we will
enhance our risk management and aim for thorough com-
pliance with laws and regulations, we will also work on the
promotion of nationalization.
Net Income from Major Overseas Trading Subsidiaries*
Years ended March 31 (Billions of yen)
• ITOCHU International Inc.
• ITOCHU Europe PLC.
• ITOCHU Hong Kong Ltd.
• ITOCHU(China)Holding Co., Ltd.
• ITOCHU Australia Ltd.
• ITOCHU (Thailand) Ltd.
• ITOCHU Singapore Pte, Ltd.
*ITOCHU’s share of net income 
2004
2005
¥1.4   ¥ 8.6
0.3 
1.2  
0.8  
0.1  
0.8  
0.3  
(1.5)
1.5
0.9
0.7
1.0
0.8
39
