Review and Evaluation
threaten international peace and security, we have formu-
Twice each year, Compliance Officers throughout the
lated our own management regulations (trade control pro-
Group, the Compliance Office, and the CCO individually
gram) for security trade control. Through security man-
review the compliance situations, report on them to the
agement, we are putting forth efforts to fulfill our social
Board of Directors, propose necessary improvements,
responsibility to the international community. 
and reflect them in the implementation plan for the follow-
ing fiscal year. Moreover, our personnel assessments and
Personal Information
individual performance evaluations also include sections
The Personal Information Protection Law took effect on
for evaluating compliance and observance of the ITOCHU
April 1, 2005. To ensure compliance with this law,
Corporation Code of Conduct.
ITOCHU developed internal Company rules on informa-
Security Trade Control
tion management and held in-house workshops and
other educational activities. To enhance our information
To prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruc-
management system, we have identified departments
tion and conventional weapons, Japan maintains strict
possessing databases on personal information prescribed
control of trade based on the Foreign Exchange and
by this law and appointed a chief administrator in those
Foreign Trade Law. To observe such laws and to make
departments to follow our strict management standards. 
sure we do not take part in business transactions that
Proactively Tackling Environmental Issues
In addition to providing diverse products and services in
encourage overseas offices and group companies in
Japan and overseas, ITOCHU has been putting forth
Japan and overseas, in addition to our main offices
efforts in resource development. Because some of our
(Tokyo and Osaka headquarters and five branches), to
works may greatly influence the environment, we consider
obtain ISO 14001 certification.
tackling environmental issues to be one of the most
important aspects of our management policy.
Environmental Risk Management
We manage the environmental risk of the products we
Environmental Management Systems
handle by using our own Life Cycle Assessment-based
ITOCHU has built an Environmental Management System
procedures to analyze the flow from raw materials to dis-
based on an Environmental Policy that conforms to the
posal. We also evaluate in advance, as a preventive
ISO14001 standard, and set specific environmental goals
measure, the environmental impacts of all new invest-
and targets to be pursued on a company-wide basis. The
ments and development projects. Furthermore, we select
Global Environment Committee headed by a member of
group companies annually whose operations pose a
the Board of Directors makes policy decisions, and the
potential risk to the environment, and provide them with
environmental manager in each department provides
preventive guidance against environmental degradation.
guidance and oversees operations. We will continue to
52
