Natural Resource Development Sector
Crude oil (including condensate)
LNG
Iron ore
Coal
Alumina
Forestation and pulp 
Rubber
Crude oil (North Sea)
Crude oil (Azerbaijan)
Crude oil (Sakhalin)
LNG (Oman/Qatar)
Iron ore (Australia)
Alumina (Australia)
Condensate (Algeria)
Iron ore (Brazil)
Forestation and
pulp (Brazil)
Rubber (Thailand/Indonesia)
Coal (Indonesia)
Coal (Australia)
Forestation (Australia)
Forestation (New Zealand)
• Production from full field development will be started in Azerbaijan and
   Sakhalin (Phase 1) during the Frontier-2006 period
• Pulp, iron ore and coal, for which increased production is being considered to 
   meet demand increases in China, etc.
Priority Measure 2: New Business Creation
Priority Measure 3: Maintaining Solid Management
Changes in social and market trends such as the diversifi-
cation of lifestyles, low birthrates, the aging of society,
and technological innovation have a major impact on
business. A key priority in Frontier-2006 is to anticipate
these changes and embark on the exploration of new
business areas that can serve as profit mainstays for our
Company.
New business exploration and development will focus on
three priority segments. One is the consumer business,
where our comprehensive lateral strengths will be used to
create new value-added products and services based on
consumer businesses handled at each Division Company.
Another is the field of healthcare & living services, which
promises a strong market for future growth. The third is
innovative technologies where a cornerstone has already
been laid through strategic alliances. One of the areas
identified as a field for new focus in the current mid-term
management plan is that of healthcare & living services,
which includes such segments as health, health care, and
medical treatment, and a new business aimed at active
seniors. 
Frontier-2006 maintains a firm position toward not only an
aggressive business approach but also the enhancement
of solid management. As mentioned above, we will
increase interest-bearing debts by shifting gears to an
offensive business approach, and also reinforce our finan-
cial position by continuing to improve net DER. Risk man-
agement capabilities at the consolidated level will be
strengthened through a comprehensive examination of
the risks our Company bears and the use of methods
such as risk maps, which are tools for assessing risk in
terms of the importance and frequency of occurrence.
We will also establish a highly transparent system of
corporate governance based on the appointment of cor-
porate auditors. A Disclosure Committee was established
to strengthen internal controls relating to information dis-
closure, with a particular focus on financial reports. 
In addition, positive steps will be taken toward the issue
of corporate social responsibility (CSR), such as strength-
ening Group compliance and promoting dialogue with
stakeholders. The CSR Compliance Committee as well as
the CSR & Compliance Division will be the principal
administrators of these efforts. 
17
