Special Feature 2: Business Development in ITOCHU’s Key Areas of Competence
Creating Lateral Synergy in Our Consumer
Business through an Alliance with Orico
ITOCHU Finance Corporation, one of our subsidiaries, started a financing business for consumer finance com-
panies in 1998. Since that time, we have been striving to outpace other general trading companies in accumu-
lating a base of expertise and working to expand our retail finance business. As part of our efforts, we estab-
lished an Internet-based consumer finance company and purchased stakes in credit card companies. 
In 2005, ITOCHU invested approximately ¥70 billion to acquire 21% of the common stocks (and preferred
shares) in Orient Corporation (Orico), making it the firm’s leading shareholder. Through this alliance with Orico,
we will expand not only our retail finance business but also our high-value-added businesses by applying our
functions and expertise in logistics, marketing, and other areas to Orico as well as its member merchants in a
cross-company and comprehensive manner. 
ITOCHU’s Functions Provided to
Member Merchants of Orico
1. Provision of Retailer Support
Functions
ITOCHU  provides  various  solutions  to
improve  business  efficiency  at  Orico’s
620,000 member merchants. 
We  have  been  advancing  measures
not  realized  by  other  general  trading
companies.  One  such  measure  is  the
“Retail  Platform,”  which  has  been
implemented  by  approximately  20
ITOCHU  group  companies  and  which
provides  a  one-stop-solution  for  retail-
ers  in  a  cross-company  fashion.
Another  measure  is  the  establishment
of  the  Function  and  Value  (FV)
Committee,  which  aims  to  realize
cross-company lateral syntheses.
Using  our  keen  understanding  of  the
retail market, we plan to help strengthen
WIN-WIN Alliance Structure
the business base of Orico and its mem-
ber  merchants  by  providing  functions
and products under lateral integration. 
Joint Development of New
Businesses, Taking Advantage of
ITOCHU and Orico Strengths
2. Provision of Financial Services
We will provide financial products such
as business loans based on the financial
needs of Orico’s member merchants. In
April  2005,  as  our  first  project,  we
introduced  inventory  loans  for  automo-
tive dealers. (See page 37 for details.)
Provision of ITOCHU’s Products
and Services through Orico’s
Member Merchants
We will increase sales at Orico’s affili-
ates  and  expand  ITOCHU’s  sales
opportunities  by  introducing  a  large
range of products and services from the
ITOCHU  Group  to  the  23  million  cus-
tomers of Orico’s member merchants. 
ITOCHU  and  Orico  will  develop  new
businesses by utilizing the IT and logis-
tics functions of the ITOCHU Group as
well  as  its  business  partner  network  in
various areas of focus. The development
of new businesses will also extend to the
automobile-related market, where Orico
has a dominant position and established
expertise. Furthermore, we are now con-
sidering  the  possibility  of  joint  projects
in  China,  where  ITOCHU’s  position  is
strong, and in other Asian countries. 
Based on the above, we are expecting a
profit  contribution  of  about  ¥8  billion
from  Orico  (an  estimate  based  on
Orico’s  current  management  plan)  in
the fiscal year ending March 2008.
Strategic Alliance
“Company that creates customer service”
Relations with members
620,000 member merchants
Installment-sales, Alliance Card
Members for shopping
1,000 sales personnel at
200 locations nationwide
Customer services
Settlement, finance, information
Data mining, Web/mobile channel
Members and
customer base
Members for automobiles
Credit card strategic partners
Support 
differentiation 
of services
23 million
individual
customers
Vitalize
Earnings expansion
“Frontier-2006”
Retailer support function
Business department/Retail Platform
Financial services
Consumer-related businesses
Products and services
New businesses
21
