Akira Kodera
President, Finance, Realty, Insurance & Logistics Services Company
Finance, Realty, Insurance & Logistics Services Company
The  Finance,  Realty,  Insurance  &  Logistics  Services
businesses expansion by way of cross-divisional col-
Company’s  primary  businesses  are  retail  finance,
laboration.  For  example,  the  Division  Company  has
housing,  insurance  intermediation,  and  third-party
been active in real estate securitization due to closer
logistics (3PL). In each of these businesses, we have a
cooperation  between  the  Construction  &  Realty
leading position among general trading companies.
Division and the Financial Services Division.
For the retail finance business, our Division Company
We  are  also  actively  expanding  operations  across
has  a  particularly  strong  position.  In  February  2005,
the  entire  Asian  region,  including  China.  To  facilitate
we  decided  to  become  the  primary  shareholder  in
our distribution, we have established both a main-line
Orient Corporation (Orico), securing 21% of the voting
distribution and terminal delivery networks that cover
rights  through  a  capital  investment  of  approximately
all  regions  of  China.  This  system  of  networks  will
¥70  billion.  This  marks  the  first  full-scale  entry  by  a
strongly  support  ITOCHU’s  China  Strategy,  which
general trading company into this sector. Our goal is
focuses on downstream fields such as the consumer
to actively support Orico’s affiliated retail outlets and
and retail-related sectors. In the insurance sector, we
increase  its  corporate  value.  Support  will  not  only
have established a tie-up with Ingosstrakh Insurance
come  from  our  Financial  Services  Division,  but  will
Company,  Ltd.,  the  third  largest  Russian  insurance
instead be provided by all ITOCHU’s business units.
company.  This  partnership  will  provide  insurance
Another strength of our Division Company lies in its
support  for  the  anticipated  rapid  increase  of
Japanese companies entering the Russian market.
Financial Highlights
Business  Performance  and  Priority  Policies  in  Fiscal
(Billions of yen) 1,000
The business environment was comparatively strong in fis-
Year 2005
10 (Billions of yen)
10 (%)
-10
-10
-1,000
-75.6
-2,000
-20
’03 
(Years ended March 31)
’04 
’05 
(As of March 31)
Net income (loss) (Above Left)
Total assets (Right) 
ROA (Below Left)
Net income (loss) exc. impairment
losses for fixed assets, etc.
36
cal  year  2005.  Housing  construction  starts  continued  to
improve  and  demand  for  the  3PL  market  has  expanded
substantially  due  to  a  greater  need  for  distribution  cost
reductions.
In such an environment, we have secured a profit base in
our retail finance business by forming the alliance with Orico
as a starting point, while simultaneously expanding our busi-
nesses offering high asset efficiency, such as the securitiza-
tion  business.  We  have  also  placed  a  priority  on  profit
growth in the insurance and logistics services sectors.
