Editorial Policy
Key Points of Annual Report 2023
In compiling this annual report, ITOCHU focuses on three functions in 
 particular: (1) providing an in-depth understanding of its unique business 
model to a wide range of readers around the world, (2) effectively explain-
ing the processes and potential for ITOCHU to achieve sustainable growth 
in corporate value over the long term, and (3) clearly communicating the 
relationship between management strategies and financial and non-finan-
cial capital to internal and external stakeholders to foster the virtuous 
cycle of cultivating mutual understanding through dialogue and achieving 
a greater level of management sophistication for the Company.
  We have prepared Annual Report 2023 based on the aforementioned 
approach, and with reference to a disclosure framework for integrated 
reports. This year’s report places particular emphasis on 
our strategic focus and future orientation, connectivity, 
and consistency. Further, as in the past, we have used 
the “Corporate Value Calculation Formula*” to clearly 
establish the link between our management strategies 
and initiatives, and the enhancement of our corporate 
value. Please review this report as an account of our value creation story, 
which aims to achieve a balance between our “financial capital” and “non-
financial capital” based upon “Sampo-yoshi” as our corporate mission, 
and our business model evolution process in the current uncertain busi-
ness environment.
* Corporate Value Calculation Formula
Achievement of Short-Term Targets
Expand Created Value 
Enhancement of Corporate Value 
Driving Force for Sustainable Value 
Creation (Total capital)
Lower Cost of Capital 
Increase Growth Rate 
Initiatives and Systems Supporting 
Sustainable Growth
Steppingstones to Medium- to  
Long-Term Value Creation
Reporting Scope and Other Items  
Reporting Period:  April 1, 2022 to March 31, 2023 (Certain contents 
include activities occurring in or after April 2023.)
Reporting Scope: ITOCHU Corporation and the ITOCHU Group
Accounting Standards:  Unless otherwise noted, this annual report is pre-
pared in accordance with U.S. GAAP through FYE 
2014, and with IFRS from FYE 2015.
Terminology:  Unless otherwise noted, throughout this report, “consolidated 
net profit” is used to refer to “net profit attributable to 
ITOCHU.” Moreover, “GHG” is used to refer to “greenhouse 
gas,” FamilyMart refers to both FamilyMart Co., Ltd. and 
FamilyMart convenience stores, CITIC refers to CITIC Limited, 
and CTC refers to ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation.
Inquiries for Annual Reports
Investor Relations Division 
+81 (3)-3497-7295
Detailed Financial Information  
For detailed financial information for FYE 2023, please refer to the Financial 
Information Report.
 https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/files/FIR2023E.pdf
Information about Sustainability  
For more information on sustainability, please refer to ITOCHU’s website.
 https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/csr/
• Top commitment
•  Sustainability at the ITOCHU Group
• ESG Report (Environment, Society, Governance)
•  Social contribution activities
•  GRI standard reference table, etc.
 Annual Report (this report)
[Focus points] 
• Sustainability and future, of our strategy and business model
• The overall connectivity of our story
• Relationship with stakeholders
 IR Website
 Sustainability Website
 ESG Report
[Focus point] 
Comprehensiveness and 
timeliness of information
The ESG Report is available on ITOCHU’s website.
 https://www.itochu.co.jp/en/csr/report/
High
Importance for management 
  Very high
Example:  
Fertilizer-related 
business
Example: 
Digital  transformation- 
related businesses 
 centered on CTC
Example:  Lake Biwa rare freshwater fish  
conservation project
As the standard for inclusion in our annual report, we have selected environ-
mental, social, and governance (ESG)-related information from an investor’s 
perspective based mainly on its relation to our businesses and material issues.
Contained in Annual Report  
A.  Operating activities that are highly related to ITOCHU’s businesses 
and material issues and that ITOCHU actively participates
B.  Operating activities that are highly related to ITOCHU’s businesses 
and material issues while the participation of ITOCHU is limited
Only Included in Sustainability Website / ESG Report  
C.  Operating activities with little relation to ITOCHU’s businesses and 
Our participation in operating activity (investment ratio, etc.)
material issues
Key Points of Annual Report 2023
Annual Report 2023 continues to logically arrange information by using the established 
“Corporate Value Calculation Formula,” and the concept that the Chairman & CEO gives an 
overview of management strategies, while each officer explains the details of strategies 
focused on their area of responsibility. The report also aims to achieve the balance between 
“financial capital” and “non-financial capital” to ensure the sustainability of the Company, by 
featuring and explaining the process of self-transformation (polishing our existing business 
and new steppingstones for the future) of business models in the non-resource sector, which 
is the Company’s strength, and the human resource strategy that focuses on the most 
important management resource of general trading companies, “people,” particularly in the 
uncertain business environment including concerns over the economic downturn and geo-
political risks. Furthermore, the Annual Report has been created with the perspective explaining the “ITOCHU-ness” 
that constantly takes preemptive measures by sufficiently distinguishing between “things that should not be 
changed” and “things to change” in the era of transformation.  
•  Overview of management strategies 
•  Analysis of macroenvironmental factors 
 Page 74 
•  Risk factors / key points for investments 
 Page 42 
•  Financial and capital strategies, and cash allocation 
 Page 6
 Page 99
 Page 50
 Page 54
•  Polishing our existing business and new steppingstones for 
the future 
 Page 65
•  Human resource strategy 
•  Climate change-related issues 
•  Group CEO Office and Governance 
 Page 30 
 Page 36
 Page 12 
 Page 78
 Page 43 
 Page 91
Many factors in the external environment that affect our business management  
remain uncertain and unpredictable.
Identifying “things that should remain unchanged” and “things that should change” is important.
Changes Anticipated in FYE 2024
•  Lifting of COVID-19 pandemic-related restrictions
•  Fall in resource prices compared with FYE 2023  
(despite high price levels continuing)
Factors That Are Difficult to Predict in FYE 2024
• Geopolitical risks
• Price fluctuations (inflation)
• Fluctuations in commodity prices
• Interest rate and foreign exchange rate levels
Changes in the External Environment in FYE 2023
•  Continuation of COVID-19 pandemic-related 
•  Soaring prices of natural resources, etc.
restrictions
•  Prolongation of Russia–Ukraine situation
• Acceleration of inflation
•  Interest rate hikes centered in  
the United States and Europe
• Rapid depreciation of the yen
Key Points of Annual Report 2022
Annual Report 2022 used the “Corporate Value Calculation Formula” to logically organize 
the driving forces behind and initiatives implemented to enhance corporate value. Also, the 
Chairman & CEO provided an overview of management strategies and priority initiatives, 
while each officer explained the details of strategies focused on their area of responsibility. 
Furthermore, by providing examples of business model transformation, and explanations of 
the countermeasures for country risks and other risks, and our human resource strategy 
and governance that encompass the advancement of women, we sought to prepare an 
Annual Report that heightens trust in our management’s capabilities to respond to changes 
in the external environment.
