Special Feature 2: Business Development in ITOCHU’s Key Areas of Competence
ITOCHU’s Advantages in Minerals and
Energy Resource Development Businesses:
In Pursuit of Asset Efficiency
ITOCHU has a number of highly efficient and profitable projects related to metals and minerals as well
as energy development, which produce a level of asset efficiency that ranks among the top for general
trading companies. Our fundamental strategy is to strengthen and expand ITOCHU’s profit base in the
natural resource development business by expanding investment in existing business projects and
working to develop new, superior projects while sustaining a high level of asset efficiency.
Example of an ITOCHU Natural
Resource Development Project in
Its Pursuit of Asset Efficiency
anticipate vastly expanded profit growth
as  crude  oil  production  and  shipment
volumes increase.
1. Active Advancement of the
Azerbaijan Project
We  expect  that  the  ACG  Crude  Oil
Development  Project  in  Azerbaijan  and
the  BTC  Pipeline  Project,  which  is  to
transport the crude oil from the Caspian
Sea  to  the  Mediterranean  Sea,  will
become  one  of  the  main  profit  sources
for ITOCHU’s energy resource develop-
ment sector over the mid to long term.  
In February 2005, we commenced pro-
duction  on  a  commercial  scale  at  the
Central Azeri oil field, one of the ACG
Project’s main oil deposits. The plan for
the  future  is  to  expand  production,
establishing a production capability that
entails a peak capacity of 1 million bar-
rels  per  day  by  2010.  In  addition,  the
laying  of  pipeline  to  transport  such  a
volume  of  oil  efficiently  is  progressing
on schedule and we anticipate it will be
operational on a full scale by the end of
2005.
ITOCHU  is  the  only  general  trading
company  with  active  oil  exploration
projects in the region. We hold stakes of
3.9% and 3.4% in the ACG Project and
BTC  Pipeline  Project,  respectively,  and
2. “Consolidating Operations” and
“Configuring a Natural Resource
Portfolio” in Australia
In  March  2004,  ITOCHU  consolidated
all  its  Australian  group  companies  in
which it had a natural resource develop-
ment  equity  share  including  iron  ore,
coal, aluminum, and crude oil by estab-
lishing ITOCHU Minerals & Energy of
Australia  Pty  Ltd  (IMEA).  Through  the
consolidation,  we  have  secured  the  fol-
lowing  advantages:  (1)  pursue  more
comprehensive  alliances  with  major
resource companies than on a sector-by-
sector  basis;  (2)  enjoy  a  more  efficient
use of capital by having a stronger finan-
cial background; and (3) enhance our in-
house  project  evaluation  capability  by
securing  and  training  specialists,  taking
advantage of our scale as a comprehen-
sive resource development company. As
the  full  advantages  of  consolidation
come  to  bear,  we  anticipate  a  dramatic
ACG Project Production Volume
1,200 (1,000 barrels/day)
Mt. Newman (Mt.Whaleback Iron Ore Mine)
expansion  in  our  earnings  base  for  the
natural  resource  development  business
in this region.
Supported  by  an  upward  price  trend
and  greater  demand,  net  income  for
IMEA in fiscal year 2005 exceeded our
initial forecast by ¥7.2 billion, recording
a  160%  year-on-year  increase  to  ¥13.9
billion.  In  addition,  we  expect  further
profit  expansion  in  the  next  fiscal  year
as  our  Rolleston  coal  mining  project  in
Queensland  and  Cliff  Head  crude  oil
development  project  in  Western
Australia begin operations and start con-
tributing to profits.
*Please refer to page 31 for the information on
the Company’s major resource projects.
800
400
0
’02 
Offshore platform of the Central Azeri Field
(Photo: Courtesy of BP)
22
’04 
’06 
’08 
’10 
’12 
’14 
’16 
’18 
’20 
’22 
’24 year
