Special Feature   
operating new businesses related to thermal coal or con-
ducting new  development of coal-fired power generation. 
In addition, we participated in the TCFD Consortium, which 
was jointly established by the Ministry of Economy, Trade 
and Industry, the Ministry of the Environment, and the Fi-
nancial Services Agency and provides a forum for TCFD-
supporting  com panies to conduct discussions. 
Furthermore, we are  implementing a variety of advanced 
initiatives, including coal business analyses using a number 
of scenarios based on the recommendations of TCFD.
Kobayashi: As we steadily respond to social issues, I 
believe that human resources in the “S” (in “ESG”) will play 
a central role in continuously expanding ITOCHU’s corpo-
rate value. ITOCHU maintains that its creation of company 
environments that are strict but rewarding to work in leads 
to labor productivity befitting the No. 1 general trading 
company. We also aim to become a good company for 
society as a whole by returning the results that this labor 
productivity produces to our employees and shareholders. 
We aim to create cycle in which students searching for 
work upon graduation will look at us more favorably, 
enabling us to continuously hire more superior graduates. 
I want to keep this cycle turning steadily as we move 
forward. ITOCHU was selected as the top company in 
all industries or as the No. 1 general trading company in 
a variety of employment rankings. I believe that this is 
evidence of our status as a sustainable company that 
students have called “worth betting your life on.” Further-
more, from an ESG perspective, I think that sustainability is 
precisely what makes a “good company.”
Kawana: Currently, many traditional companies are facing 
pressure to implement major reforms in the face up un-
precedented technological innovation. In the past, students 
may have felt secure if they could enter a large company, 
but I think that students are now selecting companies 
based on a stricter point of view that considers whether or 
not they can adapt to a variety of changes moving forward. 
The perception of ITOCHU as a company with a clear vision 
that is capable of change under these conditions is likely 
what leads to these kinds of assessments.
Muraki: In terms of change, I would have to say that the 
evolution of our corporate governance is most striking. 
ITOCHU’s approach of listening to people’s opinions, includ-
ing those of its outsider Directors, has become particularly 
strong over the last few years. Systems that allow change, 
including changes to nominations and compensation, to 
be triggered from outside the Company are firmly built in. 
I believe that outside Directors like us need to play a major 
role during times like the present, when a company is being 
led by strong leadership. I will continue to exert pressure 
when necessary to ensure that those working within the 
Company do not become “yes men.”
Kawana: I agree. Moving forward, I want to continue to act 
as a liaison that enables senior management to properly 
absorb the opinions of its employees.
Kobayashi: You have shared opinions for our sustainable 
development, focusing primarily on people. Our corporate 
message, “I am One with Infinite Missions,” is a moderniza-
tion of sampo yoshi (good for the seller, good for the buyer 
and good for society), the management philosophy of 
Ohmi merchants. Believe it or not, the term sampo yoshi , 
which is the cornerstone of sustainable growth at ITOCHU, 
is said to have been created when later scholars rephrased 
the business philosophy of Chubei Itoh  , ITOCHU’s 
founder. We can confidently say that it is our original phi-
losophy that describes the spirit upon which we were 
founded. (
ITOCHU) ITOCHU already makes determinations regarding 
material issues based on this philosophy of sampo yoshi 
and uses these determinations to establish concrete goals. 
Moving forward, I would like to aim for sustainability by 
 instilling this spirit, which has been continuously passed 
down since our founding for more than 160 years, in each 
of our employees and ensuring that they share it with each 
other and apply it in their work. Thank you for taking the 
time out of your busy schedules to participate today.
 Page 20 Commentary: The Merchants of 
S
p
e
c
a
i
l
F
e
a
t
u
r
e
“We can confidently say that sampo yoshi is 
our original philosophy that describes  
the spirit upon which we were founded.”
Fumihiko Kobayashi
Member of the Board 
Senior Managing Executive Officer, CAO
73
 
