reduce less profitable transactions and under-per-
forming assets have brought about solid improve-
ments to our gross trading profit ratio.
Reductions in selling, general and administrative
expenses of ¥17.0 billion, or 3.7%, have contributed
to an increase in trading income* of ¥4.2 billion, up
4.4% year-on-year to ¥100.7 billion recovering trad-
ing income* to the ¥100 billion mark. We also post-
ed improvements in net financial expenses and equi-
ty in earnings of associated companies. A sharp
drop in stock prices near the fiscal year-end, howev-
er, forced us to take considerable devaluation and
disposal losses on marketable securities totaling
¥44.7 billion, which led to a net income of ¥20.1
billion, down by ¥10.1 billion, or 33.5%, from the
previous fiscal year. 
In addition to the above, we also pay close atten-
tion to another indicator of profitability, adjusted
profit (gross trading profit + selling, general, and
administrative expense + net financial expenses +
equity in earnings (losses) of associated companies).
This key indicator hit an all-time high, increasing by
¥12.8 billion to ¥115.5 billion, as we have continued
to steadily boost our basic earning power.
Resource Allocation Prioritized Based on A&P
Strategy 
Under our previous mid-term plan, A&P-2002, which
covered the period from April 2001 to March 2003,
we worked to reform our profit structure based on
our A&P strategy. We worked to strengthen overall
profitability by allocating assets to priority areas in
which ITOCHU can offer “attractive” products and
services for customers and in which we exhibit
“powerful” capabilities. Specifically, we prioritized as
A&P segments four business segments—informa-
tion and multimedia, consumer and retail related,
natural resource development, and financial services
as well as the two regions of North America and
Asia.
During this two-year period, the ratio of A&P
assets to total assets increased from 44% to 50%.
And, under the tough economic conditions notwith-
standing, consolidated net income from A&P
segments grew by ¥5.2 billion compared to the pre-
vious fiscal year to ¥50.7 billion. Thus, A&P seg-
ments have grown to become the unquestionable
drivers of ITOCHU’s profits. 
Maximization of Group Value by Strengthening
Group Companies and Financial Position
ITOCHU is strengthening its group companies to
make them the key players in our overall profit. 
To achieve this objective, under A&P-2002, we
worked to maximize the value of the entire group;
restructuring unprofitable companies and withdrawal
of under-performing operations were one initiative.
During the two-year period, the number of consoli-
dated companies decreased by 89 to 651. This
number represents less than two-thirds of the total
as of March 1999, which was 1,027. Over the two-
year period of A&P-2002, net income from sub-
sidiaries and affiliates, excluding overseas trading
subsidiaries, grew from ¥23.1 billion (net of ¥64.7
billion in profits from companies in the black and
¥41.6 billion in losses from those in the red) to ¥47.4
billion (net of ¥62.1 billion in profits and ¥14.7 billion
in losses). During the same period, the ratio of
profitable companies, including overseas trading
subsidiaries, to the total number of consolidated
companies jumped from 73.5% to over 80%
(80.2%).
Additionally, we have made steady progress in
strengthening our consolidated financial position
over the past two years. We have reduced total
assets and interest-bearing debts largely ahead of
our original plan.  Total assets have been reduced
by around ¥670 billion to ¥4,486.4 billion, while net
interest-bearing debts have been reduced by over
¥500 billion to almost ¥2 trillion. At the same time,
stockholders’ equity increased by over ¥100 billion
to ¥426.2 billion at the end of March 2003, as we
accumulated retained earnings and offered new
shares in July 2002 with an effect of ¥54.8 billion
increase in stockholders’ equity.  As a result of these
activities, the stockholders’ equity ratio increased
from 6.1% to 9.5% and our net DER (net debt-to-
equity ratio) improved from 8.0 to 4.8. Nevertheless,
we are not satisfied with the current level of stock-
holders’ equity. We plan to increase it further by
retaining earnings, while maintaining consistent and
stable dividend payments to our stockholders.   
ITOCHU Corporation | 3.
